THE BOOK OF ALMA
THE SON OF ALMA
The account of Alma, who was the son of Alma the first, and chief
judge over the people of Nephi, and also the high priest over the
Church.   An account of the reign of the judges, and the wars and
contentions among the people.   And also an account of a war
between the Nephites and the Lamanites, according to the record
of Alma, the first and chief judge.

Chapter 1

 1 Now it came to pass that in the first year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi, from this time forward, king
Mosiah having gone the way of all the earth, having warred a good
warfare, walking uprightly before God, leaving none to reign in
his stead; nevertheless he had established laws, and they were
acknowledged by the people; therefore they were obliged to abide
by the laws which he had made.

 2 And it came to pass that in the first year of the reign of
Alma in the judgment-seat, there was a man brought before him to
be judged, a man who was large, and was noted for his much
strength.

 3 And he had gone about among the people, preaching to them that
which he termed to be the word of God, bearing down against the
church; declaring unto the people that every priest and teacher
ought to become popular; and they ought not to labor with their
hands, but that they ought to be supported by the people.

 4 And he also testified unto the people that all mankind should
be saved at the last day, and that they need not fear nor
tremble, but that they might lift up their heads and rejoice; for
the Lord had created all men, and had also redeemed all men; and,
in the end, all men should have eternal life.

 5 And it came to pass that he did teach these things so much
that many did believe on his words, even so many that they began
to support him and give him money.

 6 And he began to be lifted up in the pride of his heart, and to
wear very costly apparel, yea, and even began to establish a
church after the manner of his preaching.

 7 And it came to pass as he was going, to preach to those who
believed on his word, he met a man who belonged to the church of
God, yea, even one of their teachers; and he began to contend
with him sharply, that he might lead away the people of the
church; but the man withstood him, admonishing him with the words
of God.

 8 Now the name of the man was Gideon; and it was he who was an
instrument in the hands of God in delivering the people of Limhi
out of bondage.

 9 Now, because Gideon withstood him with the words of God he was
wroth with Gideon, and drew his sword and began to smite him. 
Now Gideon being stricken with many years, therefore he was not
able to withstand his blows, therefore he was slain by the sword.

 10 And the man who slew him was taken by the people of the
church, and was brought before Alma, to be judged according to
the crimes which he had committed.

 11 And it came to pass that he stood before Alma and pleaded for
himself with much boldness.

 12 But Alma said unto him: Behold, this is the first time that
priestcraft has been introduced among this people.  And behold,
thou art not only guilty of priestcraft, but hast endeavored to
enforce it by the sword; and were priestcraft to be enforced
among this people it would prove their entire destruction.

 13 And thou hast shed the blood of a righteous man, yea, a man
who has done much good among this people; and were we to spare
thee his blood would come upon us for vengeance.

 14 Therefore thou art condemned to die, according to the law
which has been given us by Mosiah, our last king; and it has been
acknowledged by this people; therefore this people must abide by
the law.

 15 And it came to pass that they took him; and his name was
Nehor; and they carried him upon the top of the hill Manti, and
there he was caused, or rather did acknowledge, between the
heavens and the earth, that what he had taught to the people was
contrary to the word of God; and there he suffered an ignominious
death.

 16 Nevertheless, this did not put an end to the spreading of
priestcraft through the land; for there were many who loved the
vain things of the world, and they went forth preaching false
doctrines; and this they did for the sake of riches and honor.

 17 Nevertheless, they durst not lie, if it were known, for fear
of the law, for liars were punished; therefore they pretended to
preach according to their belief; and now the law could have no
power on any man for his belief.

 18 And they durst not steal, for fear of the law, for such were
punished; neither durst they rob, nor murder, for he that
murdered was punished unto death.

 19 But it came to pass that whosoever did not belong to the
church of God began to persecute those that did belong to the
church of God, and had taken upon them the name of Christ.

 20 Yea, they did persecute them, and afflict them with all
manner of words, and this because of their humility; because they
were not proud in their own eyes, and because they did impart the
word of God, one with another, without money and without price.

 21 Now there was a strict law among the people of the church
that there should not any man, belonging to the church, arise and
persecute those that did not belong to the church, and that there
should be no persecution among themselves.

 22 Nevertheless, there were many among them who began to be
proud, and began to contend warmly with their adversaries, even
unto blows; yea, they would smite one another with their fists.

 23 Now this was in the second year of the reign of Alma, and it
was a cause of much affliction to the church; yea, it was the
cause of much trial with the church.

 24 For the hearts of many were hardened, and their names were
blotted out, that they were remembered no more among the people
of God.  And also many withdrew themselves from among them.

 25 Now this was a great trial to those that did stand fast in
the faith; nevertheless, they were steadfast and immovable in
keeping the commandments of God, and they bore with patience the
persecution which was heaped upon them.

 26 And when the priests left their labor to impart the word of
God unto the people, the people also left their labors to hear
the word of God.  And when the priest had imparted unto them the
word of God they all returned again diligently unto their labors;
and the priest, not esteeming himself above his hearers, for the
preacher was no better than the hearer, neither was the teacher
any better than the learner; and thus they were all equal, and
they did all labor, every man according to his strength.

 27 And they did impart of their substance, every man according
to that which he had, to the poor, and the needy, and the sick,
and the afflicted; and they did not wear costly apparel, yet they
were neat and comely.

 28 And thus they did establish the affairs of the church; and
thus they began to have continual peace again, notwithstanding
all their persecutions.

 29 And now, because of the steadiness of the church they began
to be exceedingly rich, having abundance of all things whatsoever
they stood in need--an abundance of flocks and herds, and
fatlings of every kind, and also abundance of grain, and of gold,
and of silver, and of precious things, and abundance of silk and
fine-twined linen, and all manner of good homely cloth.

 30 And thus, in their prosperous circumstances, they did not
send away any who were naked, or that were hungry, or that were
athirst, or that were sick, or that had not been nourished; and
they did not set their hearts upon riches; therefore they were
liberal to all, both old and young, both bond and free, both male
and female, whether out of the church or in the church, having no
respect to persons as to those who stood in need.

 31 And thus they did prosper and become far more wealthy than
those who did not belong to their church.

 32 For those who did not belong to their church did indulge
themselves in sorceries, and in idolatry or idleness, and in
babblings, and in envyings and strife; wearing costly apparel;
being lifted up in the pride of their own eyes; persecuting,
lying, thieving, robbing, committing whoredoms, and murdering,
and all manner of wickedness; nevertheless, the law was put in
force upon all those who did transgress it, inasmuch as it was
possible.

 33 And it came to pass that by thus exercising the law upon
them, every man suffering according to that which he had done,
they became more still, and durst not commit any wickedness if it
were known; therefore, there was much peace among the people of
Nephi until the fifth year of the reign of the judges.

Chapter 2

 1 And it came to pass in the commencement of the fifth year of
their reign there began to be a contention among the people; for
a certain man, being called Amlici, he being a very cunning man,
yea, a wise man as to the wisdom of the world, he being after the
order of the man that slew Gideon by the sword, who was executed
according to the law--

 2 Now this Amlici had, by his cunning, drawn away much people
after him; even so much that they began to be very powerful; and
they began to endeavor to establish Amlici to be king over the
people.

 3 Now this was alarming to the people of the church, and also to
all those who had not been drawn away after the persuasions of
Amlici; for they knew that according to their law that such
things must be established by the voice of the people.

 4 Therefore, if it were possible that Amlici should gain the
voice of the people, he, being a wicked man, would deprive them
of their rights and privileges of the church; for it was his
intent to destroy the church of God.

 5 And it came to pass that the people assembled themselves
together throughout all the land, every man according to his
mind, whether it were for or against Amlici, in separate bodies,
having much dispute and wonderful contentions one with another.

 6 And thus they did assemble themselves together to cast in
their voices concerning the matter; and they were laid before the
judges.

 7 And it came to pass that the voice of the people came against
Amlici, that he was not made king over the people.

 8 Now this did cause much joy in the hearts of those who were
against him; but Amlici did stir up those who were in his favor
to anger against those who were not in his favor.

 9 And it came to pass that they gathered themselves together,
and did consecrate Amlici to be their king.

 10 Now when Amlici was made king over them he commanded them
that they should take up arms against their brethren; and this he
did that he might subject them to him.

 11 Now the people of Amlici were distinguished by the name of
Amlici, being called Amlicites; and the remainder were called
Nephites, or the people of God.

 12 Therefore the people of the Nephites were aware of the intent
of the Amlicites, and therefore they did prepare to meet them;
yea, they did arm themselves with swords, and with cimeters, and
with bows, and with arrows, and with stones, and with slings, and
with all manner of weapons of war, of every kind.

 13 And thus they were prepared to meet the Amlicites at the time
of their coming.  And there were appointed captains, and higher
captains, and chief captains, according to their numbers.

 14 And it came to pass that Amlici did arm his men with all
manner of weapons of war of every kind; and he also appointed
rulers and leaders over his people, to lead them to war against
their brethren.

 15 And it came to pass that the Amlicites came upon the hill
Amnihu, which was east of the river Sidon, which ran by the land
of Zarahemla, and there they began to make war with the Nephites.

 16 Now Alma, being the chief judge and the governor of the
people of Nephi, therefore he went up with his people, yea, with
his captains, and chief captains, yea, at the head of his armies,
against the Amlicites to battle.

 17 And they began to slay the Amlicites upon the hill east of
Sidon.  And the Amlicites did contend with the Nephites with
great strength, insomuch that many of the Nephites did fall
before the Amlicites.

 18 Nevertheless the Lord did strengthen the hand of the
Nephites, that they slew the Amlicites with great slaughter, that
they began to flee before them.

 19 And it came to pass that the Nephites did pursue the
Amlicites all that day, and did slay them with much slaughter,
insomuch that there were slain of the Amlicites twelve thousand
five hundred thirty and two souls; and there were slain of the
Nephites six thousand five hundred sixty and two souls.

 20 And it came to pass that when Alma could pursue the Amlicites
no longer he caused that his people should pitch their tents in
the valley of Gideon, the valley being called after that Gideon
who was slain by the hand of Nehor with the sword; and in this
valley the Nephites did pitch their tents for the night.

 21 And Alma sent spies to follow the remnant of the Amlicites,
that he might know of their plans and their plots, whereby he
might guard himself against them, that he might preserve his
people from being destroyed.

 22 Now those whom he had sent out to watch the camp of the
Amlicites were called Zeram, and Amnor, and Manti, and Limher;
these were they who went out with their men to watch the camp of
the Amlicites.

 23 And it came to pass that on the morrow they returned into the
camp of the Nephites in great haste, being greatly astonished,
and struck with much fear, saying:

 24 Behold, we followed the camp of the Amlicites, and to our
great astonishment, in the land of Minon, above the land of
Zarahemla, in the course of the land of Nephi, we saw a numerous
host of the Lamanites; and behold, the Amlicites have joined
them;

 25 And they are upon our brethren in that land; and they are
fleeing before them with their flocks, and their wives, and their
children, towards our city; and except we make haste they obtain
possession of our city, and our fathers, and our wives, and our
children be slain.

 26 And it came to pass that the people of Nephi took their
tents, and departed out of the valley of Gideon towards their
city, which was the city of Zarahemla.

 27 And behold, as they were crossing the river Sidon, the
Lamanites and the Amlicites, being as numerous almost, as it
were, as the sands of the sea, came upon them to destroy them.

 28 Nevertheless, the Nephites being strengthened by the hand of
the Lord, having prayed mightily to him that he would deliver
them out of the hands of their enemies, therefore the Lord did
hear their cries, and did strengthen them, and the Lamanites and
the Amlicites did fall before them.

 29 And it came to pass that Alma fought with Amlici with the
sword, face to face; and they did contend mightily, one with
another.

 30 And it came to pass that Alma, being a man of God, being
exercised with much faith, cried, saying: O Lord, have mercy and
spare my life, that I may be an instrument in thy hands to save
and preserve this people.

 31 Now when Alma had said these words he contended again with
Amlici; and he was strengthened, insomuch that he slew Amlici
with the sword.

 32 And he also contended with the king of the Lamanites; but the
king of the Lamanites fled back from before Alma and sent his
guards to contend with Alma.

 33 But Alma, with his guards, contended with the guards of the
king of the Lamanites until he slew and drove them back.

 34 And thus he cleared the ground, or rather the bank, which was
on the west of the river Sidon, throwing the bodies of the
Lamanites who had been slain into the waters of Sidon, that
thereby his people might have room to cross and contend with the
Lamanites and the Amlicites on the west side of the river Sidon.

 35 And it came to pass that when they had all crossed the river
Sidon that the Lamanites and the Amlicites began to flee before
them, notwithstanding they were so numerous that they could not
be numbered.

 36 And they fled before the Nephites towards the wilderness
which was west and north, away beyond the borders of the land;
and the Nephites did pursue them with their might, and did slay
them.

 37 Yea, they were met on every hand, and slain and driven, until
they were scattered on the west, and on the north, until they had
reached the wilderness, which was called Hermounts; and it was
that part of the wilderness which was infested by wild and
ravenous beasts.

 38 And it came to pass that many died in the wilderness of their
wounds, and were devoured by those beasts and also the vultures
of the air; and their bones have been found, and have been heaped
up on the earth.

Chapter 3

 1 And it came to pass that the Nephites who were not slain by
the weapons of war, after having buried those who had been
slain--now the number of the slain were not numbered, because of
the greatness of their number--after they had finished burying
their dead they all returned to their lands, and to their houses,
and their wives, and their children.

 2 Now many women and children had been slain with the sword, and
also many of their flocks and their herds; and also many of their
fields of grain were destroyed, for they were trodden down by the
hosts of men.

 3 And now as many of the Lamanites and the Amlicites who had
been slain upon the bank of the river Sidon were cast into the
waters of Sidon; and behold their bones are in the depths of the
sea, and they are many.

 4 And the Amlicites were distinguished from the Nephites, for
they had marked themselves with red in their foreheads after the
manner of the Lamanites; nevertheless they had not shorn their
heads like unto the Lamanites.

 5 Now the heads of the Lamanites were shorn; and they were
naked, save it were skin which was girded about their loins, and
also their armor, which was girded about them, and their bows,
and their arrows, and their stones, and their slings, and so
forth.

 6 And the skins of the Lamanites were dark, according to the
mark which was set upon their fathers, which was a curse upon
them because of their transgression and their rebellion against
their brethren, who consisted of Nephi, Jacob, and Joseph, and
Sam, who were just and holy men.

 7 And their brethren sought to destroy them, therefore they were
cursed; and the Lord God set a mark upon them, yea, upon Laman
and Lemuel, and also the sons of Ishmael, and Ishmaelitish women.

 8 And this was done that their seed might be distinguished from
the seed of their brethren, that thereby the Lord God might
preserve his people, that they might not mix and believe in
incorrect traditions which would prove their destruction.

 9 And it came to pass that whosoever did mingle his seed with
that of the Lamanites did bring the same curse upon his seed.

 10 Therefore, whosoever suffered himself to be led away by the
Lamanites was called under that head, and there was a mark set
upon him.

 11 And it came to pass that whosoever would not believe in the
tradition of the Lamanites, but believed those records which were
brought out of the land of Jerusalem, and also in the tradition
of their fathers, which were correct, who believed in the
commandments of God and kept them, were called the Nephites, or
the people of Nephi, from that time forth--

 12 And it is they who have kept the records which are true of
their people, and also of the people of the Lamanites.

 13 Now we will return again to the Amlicites, for they also had
a mark set upon them; yea, they set the mark upon themselves,
yea, even a mark of red upon their foreheads.

 14 Thus the word of God is fulfilled, for these are the words
which he said to Nephi: Behold, the Lamanites have I cursed, and
I will set a mark on them that they and their seed may be
separated from thee and thy seed, from this time henceforth and
forever, except they repent of their wickedness and turn to me
that I may have mercy upon them.

 15 And again: I will set a mark upon him that mingleth his seed
with thy brethren, that they may be cursed also.

 16 And again: I will set a mark upon him that fighteth against
thee and thy seed.

 17 And again, I say he that departeth from thee shall no more be
called thy seed; and I will bless thee, and whomsoever shall be
called thy seed, henceforth and forever; and these were the
promises of the Lord unto Nephi and to his seed.

 18 Now the Amlicites knew not that they were fulfilling the
words of God when they began to mark themselves in their
foreheads; nevertheless they had come out in open rebellion
against God; therefore it was expedient that the curse should
fall upon them.

 19 Now I would that ye should see that they brought upon
themselves the curse; and even so doth every man that is cursed
bring upon himself his own condemnation.

 20 Now it came to pass that not many days after the battle which
was fought in the land of Zarahemla, by the Lamanites and the
Amlicites, that there was another army of the Lamanites came in
upon the people of Nephi, in the same place where the first army
met the Amlicites.

 21 And it came to pass that there was an army sent to drive them
out of their land.

 22 Now Alma himself being afflicted with a wound did not go up
to battle at this time against the Lamanites;

 23 But he sent up a numerous army against them; and they went up
and slew many of the Lamanites, and drove the remainder of them
out of the borders of their land.

 24 And then they returned again and began to establish peace in
the land, being troubled no more for a time with their enemies.

 25 Now all these things were done, yea, all these wars and
contentions were commenced and ended in the fifth year of the
reign of the judges.

 26 And in one year were thousands and tens of thousands of souls
sent to the eternal world, that they might reap their rewards
according to their works, whether they were good or whether they
were bad, to reap eternal happiness or eternal misery, according
to the spirit which they listed to obey, whether it be a good
spirit or a bad one.

 27 For every man receiveth wages of him whom he listeth to obey,
and this according to the words of the spirit of prophecy;
therefore let it be according to the truth.  And thus endeth the
fifth year of the reign of the judges.

Chapter 4

 1 Now it came to pass in the sixth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi, there were no contentions nor
wars in the land of Zarahemla;

 2 But the people were afflicted, yea, greatly afflicted for the
loss of their brethren, and also for the loss of their flocks and
herds, and also for the loss of their fields of grain, which were
trodden under foot and destroyed by the Lamanites.

 3 And so great were their afflictions that every soul had cause
to mourn; and they believed that it was the judgments of God sent
upon them because of their wickedness and their abominations;
therefore they were awakened to a remembrance of their duty.

 4 And they began to establish the church more fully; yea, and
many were baptized in the waters of Sidon and were joined to the
church of God; yea, they were baptized by the hand of Alma, who
had been consecrated the high priest over the people of the
church, by the hand of his father Alma.

 5 And it came to pass in the seventh year of the reign of the
judges there were about three thousand five hundred souls that
united themselves to the church of God and were baptized.  And
thus endeth the seventh year of the reign of the judges over the
people of Nephi; and there was continual peace in all that time.

 6 And it came to pass in the eighth year of the reign of the
judges, that the people of the church began to wax proud, because
of their exceeding riches, and their fine silks, and their
fine-twined linen, and because of their many flocks and herds,
and their gold and their silver, and all manner of precious
things, which they had obtained by their industry; and in all
these things were they lifted up in the pride of their eyes, for
they began to wear very costly apparel.

 7 Now this was the cause of much affliction to Alma, yea, and to
many of the people whom Alma had consecrated to be teachers, and
priests, and elders over the church; yea, many of them were
sorely grieved for the wickedness which they saw had begun to be
among their people.

 8 For they saw and beheld with great sorrow that the people of
the church began to be lifted up in the pride of their eyes, and
to set their hearts upon riches and upon the vain things of the
world, that they began to be scornful, one towards another, and
they began to persecute those that did not believe according to
their own will and pleasure.

 9 And thus, in this eighth year of the reign of the judges,
there began to be great contentions among the people of the
church; yea, there were envyings, and strife, and malice, and
persecutions, and pride, even to exceed the pride of those who
did not belong to the church of God.

 10 And thus ended the eighth year of the reign of the judges;
and the wickedness of the church was a great stumbling-block to
those who did not belong to the church; and thus the church began
to fail in its progress.

 11 And it came to pass in the commencement of the ninth year,
Alma saw the wickedness of the church, and he saw also that the
example of the church began to lead those who were unbelievers on
from one piece of iniquity to another, thus bringing on the
destruction of the people.

 12 Yea, he saw great inequality among the people, some lifting
themselves up with their pride, despising others, turning their
backs upon the needy and the naked and those who were hungry, and
those who were athirst, and those who were sick and afflicted.

 13 Now this was a great cause for lamentations among the people,
while others were abasing themselves, succoring those who stood
in need of their succor, such as imparting their substance to the
poor and the needy, feeding the hungry, and suffering all manner
of afflictions, for Christ's sake, who should come according to
the spirit of prophecy;

 14 Looking forward to that day, thus retaining a remission of
their sins; being filled with great joy because of the
resurrection of the dead, according to the will and power and
deliverance of Jesus Christ from the bands of death.

 15 And now it came to pass that Alma, having seen the
afflictions of the humble followers of God, and the persecutions
which were heaped upon them by the remainder of his people, and
seeing all their inequality, began to be very sorrowful;
nevertheless the Spirit of the Lord did not fail him.

 16 And he selected a wise man who was among the elders of the
church, and gave him power according to the voice of the people,
that he might have power to enact laws according to the laws
which had been given, and to put them in force according to the
wickedness and the crimes of the people.

 17 Now this man's name was Nephihah, and he was appointed chief
judge; and he sat in the judgment-seat to judge and to govern the
people.

 18 Now Alma did not grant unto him the office of being high
priest over the church, but he retained the office of high priest
unto himself; but he delivered the judgment-seat unto Nephihah.

 19 And this he did that he himself might go forth among his
people, or among the people of Nephi, that he might preach the
word of God unto them, to stir them up in remembrance of their
duty, and that he might pull down, by the word of God, all the
pride and craftiness and all the contentions which were among his
people, seeing no way that he might reclaim them save it were in
bearing down in pure testimony against them.

 20 And thus in the commencement of the ninth year of the reign
of the judges over the people of Nephi, Alma delivered up the
judgment-seat to Nephihah, and confined himself wholly to the
high priesthood of the holy order of God, to the testimony of the
word, according to the spirit of revelation and prophecy.

Chapter 5

 1 Now it came to pass that Alma began to deliver the word of God
unto the people, first in the land of Zarahemla, and from thence
throughout all the land.

 2 And these are the words which he spake to the people in the
church which was established in the city of Zarahemla, according
to his own record, saying:

 3 I, Alma, having been consecrated by my father, Alma, to be a
high priest over the church of God, he having power and authority
from God to do these things, behold, I say unto you that he began
to establish a church in the land which was in the borders of
Nephi; yea, the land which was called the land of Mormon; yea,
and he did baptize his brethren in the waters of Mormon.

 4 And behold, I say unto you, they were delivered out of the
hands of the people of king Noah, by the mercy and power of God.

 5 And behold, after that, they were brought into bondage by the
hands of the Lamanites in the wilderness; yea, I say unto you,
they were in captivity, and again the Lord did deliver them out
of bondage by the power of his word; and we were brought into
this land, and here we began to establish the church of God
throughout this land also.

 6 And now behold, I say unto you, my brethren, you that belong
to this church, have you sufficiently retained in remembrance the
captivity of your fathers?  Yea, and have you sufficiently
retained in remembrance his mercy and long-suffering towards
them?  And moreover, have ye sufficiently retained in remembrance
that he has delivered their souls from hell?

 7 Behold, he changed their hearts; yea, he awakened them out of
a deep sleep, and they awoke unto God.  Behold, they were in the
midst of darkness; nevertheless, their souls were illuminated by
the light of the everlasting word; yea, they were encircled about
by the bands of death, and the chains of hell, and an everlasting
destruction did await them.

 8 And now I ask of you, my brethren, were they destroyed? 
Behold, I say unto you, Nay, they were not.

 9 And again I ask, were the bands of death broken, and the
chains of hell which encircled them about, were they loosed?  I
say unto you, Yea, they were loosed, and their souls did expand,
and they did sing redeeming love.  And I say unto you that they
are saved.

 10 And now I ask of you on what conditions are they saved?  Yea,
what grounds had they to hope for salvation?  What is the cause
of their being loosed from the bands of death, yea, and also the
chains of hell?

 11 Behold, I can tell you--did not my father Alma believe in the
words which were delivered by the mouth of Abinadi?  And was he
not a holy prophet?  Did he not speak the words of God, and my
father Alma believe them?

 12 And according to his faith there was a mighty change wrought
in his heart.  Behold I say unto you that this is all true.

 13 And behold, he preached the word unto your fathers, and a
mighty change was also wrought in their hearts, and they humbled
themselves and put their trust in the true and living God.  And
behold, they were faithful until the end; therefore they were
saved.

 14 And now behold, I ask of you, my brethren of the church, have
ye spiritually been born of God?  Have ye received his image in
your countenances?  Have ye experienced this mighty change in
your hearts?

 15 Do ye exercise faith in the redemption of him who created
you?  Do you look forward with an eye of faith, and view this
mortal body raised in immortality, and this corruption raised in
incorruption, to stand before God to be judged according to the
deeds which have been done in the mortal body?

 16 I say unto you, can you imagine to yourselves that ye hear
the voice of the Lord, saying unto you, in that day: Come unto me
ye blessed, for behold, your works have been the works of
righteousness upon the face of the earth?

 17 Or do ye imagine to yourselves that ye can lie unto the Lord
in that day, and say--Lord, our works have been righteous works
upon the face of the earth--and that he will save you?

 18 Or otherwise, can ye imagine yourselves brought before the
tribunal of God with your souls filled with guilt and remorse,
having a remembrance of all your guilt, yea, a perfect
remembrance of all your wickedness, yea, a remembrance that ye
have set at defiance the commandments of God?

 19 I say unto you, can ye look up to God at that day with a pure
heart and clean hands?  I say unto you, can you look up, having
the image of God engraven upon your countenances?

 20 I say unto you, can ye think of being saved when you have
yielded yourselves to become subjects to the devil?

 21 I say unto you, ye will know at that day that ye cannot be
saved; for there can no man be saved except his garments are
washed white; yea, his garments must be purified until they are
cleansed from all stain, through the blood of him of whom it has
been spoken by our fathers, who should come to redeem his people
from their sins.

 22 And now I ask of you, my brethren, how will any of you feel,
if ye shall stand before the bar of God, having your garments
stained with blood and all manner of filthiness?  Behold, what
will these things testify against you?

 23 Behold will they not testify that ye are murderers, yea, and
also that ye are guilty of all manner of wickedness?

 24 Behold, my brethren, do ye suppose that such an one can have
a place to sit down in the kingdom of God, with Abraham, with
Isaac, and with Jacob, and also all the holy prophets, whose
garments are cleansed and are spotless, pure and white?

 25 I say unto you, Nay; except ye make our Creator a liar from
the beginning, or suppose that he is a liar from the beginning,
ye cannot suppose that such can have place in the kingdom of
heaven; but they shall be cast out for they are the children of
the kingdom of the devil.

 26 And now behold, I say unto you, my brethren, if ye have
experienced a change of heart, and if ye have felt to sing the
song of redeeming love, I would ask, can ye feel so now?

 27 Have ye walked, keeping yourselves blameless before God? 
Could ye say, if ye were called to die at this time, within
yourselves, that ye have been sufficiently humble?  That your
garments have been cleansed and made white through the blood of
Christ, who will come to redeem his people from their sins?

 28 Behold, are ye stripped of pride?  I say unto you, if ye are
not ye are not prepared to meet God.  Behold ye must prepare
quickly; for the kingdom of heaven is soon at hand, and such an
one hath not eternal life.

 29 Behold, I say, is there one among you who is not stripped of
envy?  I say unto you that such an one is not prepared; and I
would that he should prepare quickly, for the hour is close at
hand, and he knoweth not when the time shall come; for such an
one is not found guiltless.

 30 And again I say unto you, is there one among you that doth
make a mock of his brother, or that heapeth upon him
persecutions?

 31 Wo unto such an one, for he is not prepared, and the time is
at hand that he must repent or he cannot be saved!

 32 Yea, even wo unto all ye workers of iniquity; repent, repent,
for the Lord God hath spoken it!

 33 Behold, he sendeth an invitation unto all men, for the arms
of mercy are extended towards them, and he saith: Repent, and I
will receive you.

 34 Yea, he saith: Come unto me and ye shall partake of the fruit
of the tree of life; yea, ye shall eat and drink of the bread and
the waters of life freely;

 35 Yea, come unto me and bring forth works of righteousness, and
ye shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire--

 36 For behold, the time is at hand that whosoever bringeth forth
not good fruit, or whosoever doeth not the works of
righteousness, the same have cause to wail and mourn.

 37 O ye workers of iniquity; ye that are puffed up in the vain
things of the world, ye that have professed to have known the
ways of righteousness nevertheless have gone astray, as sheep
having no shepherd, notwithstanding a shepherd hath called after
you and is still calling after you, but ye will not hearken unto
his voice!

 38 Behold, I say unto you, that the good shepherd doth call you;
yea, and in his own name he doth call you, which is the name of
Christ; and if ye will not hearken unto the voice of the good
shepherd, to the name by which ye are called, behold, ye are not
the sheep of the good shepherd.

 39 And now if ye are not the sheep of the good shepherd, of what
fold are ye?  Behold, I say unto you, that the devil is your
shepherd, and ye are of his fold; and now, who can deny this? 
Behold, I say unto you, whosoever denieth this is a liar and a
child of the devil.

 40 For I say unto you that whatsoever is good cometh from God,
and whatsoever is evil cometh from the devil.

 41 Therefore, if a man bringeth forth good works he hearkeneth
unto the voice of the good shepherd, and he doth follow him; but
whosoever bringeth forth evil works, the same becometh a child of
the devil, for he hearkeneth unto his voice, and doth follow him.

 42 And whosoever doeth this must receive his wages of him;
therefore, for his wages he receiveth death, as to things
pertaining unto righteousness, being dead unto all good works.

 43 And now, my brethren, I would that ye should hear me, for I
speak in the energy of my soul; for behold, I have spoken unto
you plainly that ye cannot err, or have spoken according to the
commandments of God.

 44 For I am called to speak after this manner, according to the
holy order of God, which is in Christ Jesus; yea, I am commanded
to stand and testify unto this people the things which have been
spoken by our fathers concerning the things which are to come.

 45 And this is not all.  Do ye not suppose that I know of these
things myself?  Behold, I testify unto you that I do know that
these things whereof I have spoken are true.  And how do ye
suppose that I know of their surety?

 46 Behold, I say unto you they are made known unto me by the
Holy Spirit of God.  Behold, I have fasted and prayed many days
that I might know these things of myself.  And now I do know of
myself that they are true; for the Lord God hath made them
manifest unto me by his Holy Spirit; and this is the spirit of
revelation which is in me.

 47 And moreover, I say unto you that it has thus been revealed
unto me, that the words which have been spoken by our fathers are
true, even so according to the spirit of prophecy which is in me,
which is also by the manifestation of the Spirit of God.

 48 I say unto you, that I know of myself that whatsoever I shall
say unto you, concerning that which is to come, is true; and I
say unto you, that I know that Jesus Christ shall come, yea, the
Son, the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace, and mercy,
and truth.  And behold, it is he that cometh to take away the
sins of the world, yea, the sins of every man who steadfastly
believeth on his name.

 49 And now I say unto you that this is the order after which I
am called, yea, to preach unto my beloved brethren, yea, and
every one that dwelleth in the land; yea, to preach unto all,
both old and young, both bond and free; yea, I say unto you the
aged, and also the middle aged, and the rising generation; yea,
to cry unto them that they must repent and be born again.

 50 Yea, thus saith the Spirit: Repent, all ye ends of the earth,
for the kingdom of heaven is soon at hand; yea, the Son of God
cometh in his glory, in his might, majesty, power, and dominion. 
Yea, my beloved brethren, I say unto you, that the Spirit saith:
Behold the glory of the King of all the earth; and also the King
of heaven shall very soon shine forth among all the children of
men.

 51 And also the Spirit saith unto me, yea, crieth unto me with a
mighty voice, saying: Go forth and say unto this people--Repent,
for except ye repent ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom of
heaven.

 52 And again I say unto you, the Spirit saith: Behold, the ax is
laid at the root of the tree; therefore every tree that bringeth
not forth good fruit shall be hewn down and cast into the fire,
yea, a fire which cannot be consumed, even an unquenchable fire. 
Behold, and remember, the Holy One hath spoken it.

 53 And now my beloved brethren, I say unto you, can ye withstand
these sayings; yea, can ye lay aside these things, and trample
the Holy One under your feet; yea, can ye be puffed up in the
pride of your hearts; yea, will ye still persist in the wearing
of costly apparel and setting your hearts upon the vain things of
the world, upon your riches?

 54 Yea, will ye persist in supposing that ye are better one than
another; yea, will ye persist in the persecution of your
brethren, who humble themselves and do walk after the holy order
of God, wherewith they have been brought into this church, having
been sanctified by the Holy Spirit, and they do bring forth works
which are meet for repentance--

 55 Yea, and will you persist in turning your backs upon the
poor, and the needy, and in withholding your substance from them?

 56 And finally, all ye that will persist in your wickedness, I
say unto you that these are they who shall be hewn down and cast
into the fire except they speedily repent.

 57 And now I say unto you, all you that are desirous to follow
the voice of the good shepherd, come ye out from the wicked, and
be ye separate, and touch not their unclean things; and behold,
their names shall be blotted out, that the names of the wicked
shall not be numbered among the names of the righteous, that the
word of God may be fulfilled, which saith: The names of the
wicked shall not be mingled with the names of my people;

 58 For the names of the righteous shall be written in the book
of life, and unto them will I grant an inheritance at my right
hand.  And now, my brethren, what have ye to say against this?  I
say unto you, if ye speak against it, it matters not, for the
word of God must be fulfilled.

 59 For what shepherd is there among you having many sheep doth
not watch over them, that the wolves enter not and devour his
flock?  And behold, if a wolf enter his flock doth he not drive
him out?  Yea, and at the last, if he can, he will destroy him.

 60 And now I say unto you that the good shepherd doth call after
you; and if you will hearken unto his voice he will bring you
into his fold, and ye are his sheep; and he commandeth you that
ye suffer no ravenous wolf to enter among you, that ye may not be
destroyed.

 61 And now I, Alma, do command you in the language of him who
hath commanded me, that ye observe to do the words which I have
spoken unto you.

 62 I speak by way of command unto you that belong to the church;
and unto those who do not belong to the church I speak by way of
invitation, saying: Come and be baptized unto repentance, that ye
also may be partakers of the fruit of the tree of life.

Chapter 6

 1 And now it came to pass that after Alma had made an end of
speaking unto the people of the church, which was established in
the city of Zarahemla, he ordained priests and elders, by laying
on his hands according to the order of God, to preside and watch
over the church.

 2 And it came to pass that whosoever did not belong to the
church who repented of their sins were baptized unto repentance,
and were received into the church.

 3 And it also came to pass that whosoever did belong to the
church that did not repent of their wickedness and humble
themselves before God--I mean those who were lifted up in the
pride of their hearts--the same were rejected, and their names
were blotted out, that their names were not numbered among those
of the righteous.

 4 And thus they began to establish the order of the church in
the city of Zarahemla.

 5 Now I would that ye should understand that the word of God was
liberal unto all, that none were deprived of the privilege of
assembling themselves together to hear the word of God.

 6 Nevertheless the children of God were commanded that they
should gather themselves together oft, and join in fasting and
mighty prayer in behalf of the welfare of the souls of those who
knew not God.

 7 And now it came to pass that when Alma had made these
regulations he departed from them, yea, from the church which was
in the city of Zarahemla, and went over upon the east of the
river Sidon, into the valley of Gideon, there having been a city
built, which was called the city of Gideon, which was in the
valley that was called Gideon, being called after the man who was
slain by the hand of Nehor with the sword.

 8 And Alma went and began to declare the word of God unto the
church which was established in the valley of Gideon, according
to the revelation of the truth of the word which had been spoken
by his fathers, and according to the spirit of prophecy which was
in him, according to the testimony of Jesus Christ, the Son of
God, who should come to redeem his people from their sins, and
the holy order by which he was called.  And thus it is written. 
Amen.

Chapter 7

 1 Behold my beloved brethren, seeing that I have been permitted
to come unto you, therefore I attempt to address you in my
language; yea, by my own mouth, seeing that it is the first time
that I have spoken unto you by the words of my mouth, I having
been wholly confined to the judgment-seat, having had much
business that I could not come unto you.

 2 And even I could not have come now at this time were it not
that the judgment-seat hath been given to another, to reign in my
stead; and the Lord in much mercy hath granted that I should come
unto you.

 3 And behold, I have come having great hopes and much desire
that I should find that ye had humbled yourselves before God, and
that ye had continued in the supplicating of his grace, that I
should find that ye were blameless before him, that I should find
that ye were not in the awful dilemma that our brethren were in
at Zarahemla.

 4 But blessed be the name of God, that he hath given me to know,
yea, hath given unto me the exceedingly great joy of knowing that
they are established again in the way of his righteousness.

 5 And I trust, according to the Spirit of God which is in me,
that I shall also have joy over you; nevertheless I do not desire
that my joy over you should come by the cause of so much
afflictions and sorrow which I have had for the brethren at
Zarahemla, for behold, my joy cometh over them after wading
through much affliction and sorrow.

 6 But behold, I trust that ye are not in a state of so much
unbelief as were your brethren; I trust that ye are not lifted up
in the pride of your hearts; yea, I trust that ye have not set
your hearts upon riches and the vain things of the world; yea, I
trust that you do not worship idols, but that ye do worship the
true and living God, and that ye look forward for the remission
of your sins, with an everlasting faith, which is to come.

 7 For behold, I say unto you there be many things to come; and
behold, there is one thing which is of more importance than they
all--for behold, the time is not far distant that the Redeemer
liveth and cometh among his people.

 8 Behold, I do not say that he will come among us at the time of
his dwelling in his mortal tabernacle; for behold, the Spirit
hath not said unto me that this should be the case.  Now as to
this thing I do not know; but this much I do know, that the Lord
God hath power to do all things which are according to his word.

 9 But behold, the Spirit hath said this much unto me, saying:
Cry unto this people, saying--Repent ye, and prepare the way of
the Lord, and walk in his paths, which are straight; for behold,
the kingdom of heaven is at hand, and the Son of God cometh upon
the face of the earth.

 10 And behold, he shall be born of Mary, at Jerusalem which is
the land of our forefathers, she being a virgin, a precious and
chosen vessel, who shall be overshadowed and conceive by the
power of the Holy Ghost, and bring forth a son, yea, even the Son
of God.

 11 And he shall go forth, suffering pains and afflictions and
temptations of every kind; and this that the word might be
fulfilled which saith he will take upon him the pains and the
sicknesses of his people.

 12 And he will take upon him death, that he may loose the bands
of death which bind his people; and he will take upon him their
infirmities, that his bowels may be filled with mercy, according
to the flesh, that he may know according to the flesh how to
succor his people according to their infirmities.

 13 Now the Spirit knoweth all things; nevertheless the Son of
God suffereth according to the flesh that he might take upon him
the sins of his people, that he might blot out their
transgressions according to the power of his deliverance; and now
behold, this is the testimony which is in me.

 14 Now I say unto you that ye must repent, and be born again;
for the Spirit saith if ye are not born again ye cannot inherit
the kingdom of heaven; therefore come and be baptized unto
repentance, that ye may be washed from your sins, that ye may
have faith on the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the
world, who is mighty to save and to cleanse from all
unrighteousness.

 15 Yea, I say unto you come and fear not, and lay aside every
sin, which easily doth beset you, which doth bind you down to
destruction, yea, come and go forth, and show unto your God that
ye are willing to repent of your sins and enter into a covenant
with him to keep his commandments, and witness it unto him this
day by going into the waters of baptism.

 16 And whosoever doeth this, and keepeth the commandments of God
from thenceforth, the same will remember that I say unto him,
yea, he will remember that I have said unto him, he shall have
eternal life, according to the testimony of the Holy Spirit,
which testifieth in me.

 17 And now my beloved brethren, do you believe these things? 
Behold, I say unto you, yea, I know that ye believe them; and the
way that I know that ye believe them is by the manifestation of
the Spirit which is in me.  And now because your faith is strong
concerning that, yea, concerning the things which I have spoken,
great is my joy.

 18 For as I said unto you from the beginning, that I had much
desire that ye were not in the state of dilemma like your
brethren, even so I have found that my desires have been
gratified.

 19 For I perceive that ye are in the paths of righteousness; I
perceive that ye are in the path which leads to the kingdom of
God; yea, I perceive that ye are making his paths straight.

 20 I perceive that it has been made known unto you, by the
testimony of his word, that he cannot walk in crooked paths;
neither doth he vary from that which he hath said; neither hath
he a shadow of turning from the right to the left, or from that
which is right to that which is wrong; therefore, his course is
one eternal round.

 21 And he doth not dwell in unholy temples; neither can
filthiness or anything which is unclean be received into the
kingdom of God; therefore I say unto you the time shall come,
yea, and it shall be at the last day, that he who is filthy shall
remain in his filthiness.

 22 And now my beloved brethren, I have said these things unto
you that I might awaken you to a sense of your duty to God, that
ye may walk blameless before him, that ye may walk after the holy
order of God, after which ye have been received.

 23 And now I would that ye should be humble, and be submissive
and gentle; easy to be entreated; full of patience and
long-suffering; being temperate in all things; being diligent in
keeping the commandments of God at all times; asking for
whatsoever things ye stand in need, both spiritual and temporal;
always returning thanks unto God for whatsoever things ye do
receive.

 24 And see that ye have faith, hope, and charity, and then ye
will always abound in good works.

 25 And may the Lord bless you, and keep your garments spotless,
that ye may at last be brought to sit down with Abraham, Isaac,
and Jacob, and the holy prophets who have been ever since the
world began, having your garments spotless even as their garments
are spotless, in the kingdom of heaven to go no more out.

 26 And now my beloved brethren, I have spoken these words unto
you according to the Spirit which testifieth in me; and my soul
doth exceedingly rejoice, because of the exceeding diligence and
heed which ye have given unto my word.

 27 And now, may the peace of God rest upon you, and upon your
houses and lands, and upon your flocks and herds, and all that
you possess, your women and your children, according to your
faith and good works, from this time forth and forever.  And thus
I have spoken.  Amen.

Chapter 8

 1 And now it came to pass that Alma returned from the land of
Gideon, after having taught the people of Gideon many things
which cannot be written, having established the order of the
church, according as he had before done in the land of Zarahemla,
yea, he returned to his own house at Zarahemla to rest himself
from the labors which he had performed.

 2 And thus ended the ninth year of the reign of the judges over
the people of Nephi.

 3 And it came to pass in the commencement of the tenth year of
the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, that Alma
departed from thence and took his journey over into the land of
Melek, on the west of the river Sidon, on the west by the borders
of the wilderness.

 4 And he began to teach the people in the land of Melek
according to the holy order of God, by which he had been called;
and he began to teach the people throughout all the land of
Melek.

 5 And it came to pass that the people came to him throughout all
the borders of the land which was by the wilderness side.  And
they were baptized throughout all the land;

 6 So that when he had finished his work at Melek he departed
thence, and traveled three days' journey on the north of the land
of Melek; and he came to a city which was called Ammonihah.

 7 Now it was the custom of the people of Nephi to call their
lands, and their cities, and their villages, yea, even all their
small villages, after the name of him who first possessed them;
and thus it was with the land of Ammonihah.

 8 And it came to pass that when Alma had come to the city of
Ammonihah he began to preach the word of God unto them.

 9 Now Satan had gotten great hold upon the hearts of the people
of the city of Ammonihah; therefore they would not hearken unto
the words of Alma.

 10 Nevertheless Alma labored much in the spirit, wrestling with
God in mighty prayer, that he would pour out his Spirit upon the
people who were in the city; that he would also grant that he
might baptize them unto repentance.

 11 Nevertheless, they hardened their hearts, saying unto him:
Behold, we know that thou art Alma; and we know that thou art
high priest over the church which thou hast established in many
parts of the land, according to your tradition; and we are not of
thy church, and we do not believe in such foolish traditions.

 12 And now we know that because we are not of thy church we know
that thou hast no power over us; and thou hast delivered up the
judgment-seat unto Nephihah; therefore thou art not the chief
judge over us.

 13 Now when the people had said this, and withstood all his
words, and reviled him, and spit upon him, and caused that he
should be cast out of their city, he departed thence and took his
journey towards the city which was called Aaron.

 14 And it came to pass that while he was journeying thither,
being weighed down with sorrow, wading through much tribulation
and anguish of soul, because of the wickedness of the people who
were in the city of Ammonihah, it came to pass while Alma was
thus weighed down with sorrow, behold an angel of the Lord
appeared unto him, saying:

 15 Blessed art thou, Alma; therefore, lift up thy head and
rejoice, for thou hast great cause to rejoice; for thou hast been
faithful in keeping the commandments of God from the time which
thou receivedst thy first message from him.  Behold, I am he that
delivered it unto you.

 16 And behold, I am sent to command thee that thou return to the
city of Ammonihah, and preach again unto the people of the city;
yea, preach unto them.  Yea, say unto them, except they repent
the Lord God will destroy them.

 17 For behold, they do study at this time that they may destroy
the liberty of thy people, (for thus saith the Lord) which is
contrary to the statutes, and judgments, and commandments which
he has given unto his people.

 18 Now it came to pass that after Alma had received his message
from the angel of the Lord he returned speedily to the land of
Ammonihah.  And he entered the city by another way, yea, by the
way which is on the south of the city of Ammonihah.

 19 And as he entered the city he was an hungered, and he said to
a man: Will ye give to an humble servant of God something to eat?

 20 And the man said unto him: I am a Nephite, and I know that
thou art a holy prophet of God, for thou art the man whom an
angel said in a vision: Thou shalt receive.  Therefore, go with
me into my house and I will impart unto thee of my food; and I
know that thou wilt be a blessing unto me and my house.

 21 And it came to pass that the man received him into his house;
and the man was called Amulek; and he brought forth bread and
meat and set before Alma.

 22 And it came to pass that Alma ate bread and was filled; and
he blessed Amulek and his house, and he gave thanks unto God.

 23 And after he had eaten and was filled he said unto Amulek: I
am Alma, and am the high priest over the church of God throughout
the land.

 24 And behold, I have been called to preach the word of God
among all this people, according to the spirit of revelation and
prophecy; and I was in this land and they would not receive me,
but they cast me out and I was about to set my back towards this
land forever.

 25 But behold, I have been commanded that I should turn again
and prophesy unto this people, yea, and to testify against them
concerning their iniquities.

 26 And now, Amulek, because thou hast fed me and taken me in,
thou art blessed; for I was an hungered, for I had fasted many
days.

 27 And Alma tarried many days with Amulek before he began to
preach unto the people.

 28 And it came to pass that the people did wax more gross in
their iniquities.

 29 And the word came to Alma, saying: Go; and also say unto my
servant Amulek, go forth and prophesy unto this people,
saying--Repent ye, for thus saith the Lord, except ye repent I
will visit this people in mine anger; yea, and I will not turn my
fierce anger away.

 30 And Alma went forth, and also Amulek, among the people, to
declare the words of God unto them; and they were filled with the
Holy Ghost.

 31 And they had power given unto them, insomuch that they could
not be confined in dungeons; neither was it possible that any man
could slay them; nevertheless they did not exercise their power
until they were bound in bands and cast into prison.  Now, this
was done that the Lord might show forth his power in them.

 32 And it came to pass that they went forth and began to preach
and to prophesy unto the people, according to the spirit and
power which the Lord had given them.

Chapter 9

 1 And again, I, Alma, having been commanded of God that I should
take Amulek and go forth and preach again unto this people, or
the people who were in the city of Ammonihah, it came to pass as
I began to preach unto them, they began to contend with me,
saying:

 2 Who art thou?  Suppose ye that we shall believe the testimony
of one man, although he should preach unto us that the earth
should pass away?

 3 Now they understood not the words which they spake; for they
knew not that the earth should pass away.

 4 And they said also: We will not believe thy words if thou
shouldst prophesy that this great city should be destroyed in one
day.

 5 Now they knew not that God could do such marvelous works, for
they were a hard-hearted and a stiffnecked people.

 6 And they said: Who is God, that sendeth no more authority than
one man among this people, to declare unto them the truth of such
great and marvelous things?

 7 And they stood forth to lay their hands on me; but behold,
they did not.  And I stood with boldness to declare unto them,
yea, I did boldly testify unto them, saying:

 8 Behold, O ye wicked and perverse generation, how have ye
forgotten the tradition of your fathers; yea, how soon ye have
forgotten the commandments of God.

 9 Do ye not remember that our father, Lehi, was brought out of
Jerusalem by the hand of God?  Do ye not remember that they were
all led by him through the wilderness?

 10 And have ye forgotten so soon how many times he delivered our
fathers out of the hands of their enemies, and preserved them
from being destroyed, even by the hands of their own brethren?

 11 Yea, and if it had not been for his matchless power, and his
mercy, and his long-suffering towards us, we should unavoidably
have been cut off from the face of the earth long before this
period of time, and perhaps been consigned to a state of endless
misery and woe.

 12 Behold, now I say unto you that he commandeth you to repent;
and except ye repent, ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom of
God.  But behold, this is not all--he has commanded you to
repent, or he will utterly destroy you from off the face of the
earth; yea, he will visit you in his anger, and in his fierce
anger he will not turn away.

 13 Behold, do ye not remember the words which he spake unto
Lehi, saying that: Inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye
shall prosper in the land?  And again it is said that: Inasmuch
as ye will not keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from the
presence of the Lord.

 14 Now I would that ye should remember, that inasmuch as the
Lamanites have not kept the commandments of God, they have been
cut off from the presence of the Lord.  Now we see that the word
of the Lord has been verified in this thing, and the Lamanites
have been cut off from his presence, from the beginning of their
transgressions in the land.

 15 Nevertheless I say unto you, that it shall be more tolerable
for them in the day of judgment than for you, if ye remain in
your sins, yea, and even more tolerable for them in this life
than for you, except ye repent.

 16 For there are many promises which are extended to the
Lamanites; for it is because of the traditions of their fathers
that caused them to remain in their state of ignorance; therefore
the Lord will be merciful unto them and prolong their existence
in the land.

 17 And at some period of time they will be brought to believe in
his word, and to know of the incorrectness of the traditions of
their fathers; and many of them will be saved, for the Lord will
be merciful unto all who call on his name.

 18 But behold, I say unto you that if ye persist in your
wickedness that your days shall not be prolonged in the land, for
the Lamanites shall be sent upon you; and if ye repent not they
shall come in a time when you know not, and ye shall be visited
with utter destruction; and it shall be according to the fierce
anger of the Lord.

 19 For he will not suffer you that ye shall live in your
iniquities, to destroy his people.  I say unto you, Nay; he would
rather suffer that the Lamanites might destroy all his people who
are called the people of Nephi, if it were possible that they
could fall into sins and transgressions, after having had so much
light and so much knowledge given unto them of the Lord their
God;

 20 Yea, after having been such a highly favored people of the
Lord; yea, after having been favored above every other nation,
kindred, tongue, or people; after having had all things made
known unto them, according to their desires, and their faith, and
prayers, of that which has been, and which is, and which is to
come;

 21 Having been visited by the Spirit of God; having conversed
with angels, and having been spoken unto by the voice of the
Lord; and having the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of
revelation, and also many gifts, the gift of speaking with
tongues, and the gift of preaching, and the gift of the Holy
Ghost, and the gift of translation;

 22 Yea, and after having been delivered of God out of the land
of Jerusalem, by the hand of the Lord; having been saved from
famine, and from sickness, and all manner of diseases of every
kind; and they having waxed strong in battle, that they might not
be destroyed; having been brought out of bondage time after time,
and having been kept and preserved until now; and they have been
prospered until they are rich in all manner of things--

 23 And now behold I say unto you, that if this people, who have
received so many blessings from the hand of the Lord, should
transgress contrary to the light and knowledge which they do
have, I say unto you that if this be the case, that if they
should fall into transgression, it would be far more tolerable
for the Lamanites than for them.

 24 For behold, the promises of the Lord are extended to the
Lamanites, but they are not unto you if ye transgress; for has
not the Lord expressly promised and firmly decreed, that if ye
will rebel against him that ye shall utterly be destroyed from
off the face of the earth?

 25 And now for this cause, that ye may not be destroyed, the
Lord has sent his angel to visit many of his people, declaring
unto them that they must go forth and cry mightily unto this
people, saying: Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is nigh at
hand;

 26 And not many days hence the Son of God shall come in his
glory; and his glory shall be the glory of the Only Begotten of
the Father, full of grace, equity, and truth, full of patience,
mercy, and long-suffering, quick to hear the cries of his people
and to answer their prayers.

 27 And behold, he cometh to redeem those who will be baptized
unto repentance, through faith on his name.

 28 Therefore, prepare ye the way of the Lord, for the time is at
hand that all men shall reap a reward of their works, according
to that which they have been--if they have been righteous they
shall reap the salvation of their souls, according to the power
and deliverance of Jesus Christ; and if they have been evil they
shall reap the damnation of their souls, according to the power
and captivation of the devil.

 29 Now behold, this is the voice of the angel, crying unto the
people.

 30 And now, my beloved brethren, for ye are my brethren, and ye
ought to be beloved, and ye ought to bring forth works which are
meet for repentance, seeing that your hearts have been grossly
hardened against the word of God, and seeing that ye are a lost
and a fallen people.

 31 Now it came to pass that when I, Alma, had spoken these
words, behold, the people were wroth with me because I said unto
them that they were a hard-hearted and a stiffnecked people.

 32 And also because I said unto them that they were a lost and a
fallen people they were angry with me, and sought to lay their
hands upon me, that they might cast me into prison.

 33 But it came to pass that the Lord did not suffer them that
they should take me at that time and cast me into prison.

 34 And it came to pass that Amulek went and stood forth, and
began to preach unto them also.  And now the words of Amulek are
not all written, nevertheless a part of his words are written in
this book.

Chapter 10

 1 Now these are the words which Amulek preached unto the people
who were in the land of Ammonihah, saying:

 2 I am Amulek; I am the son of Giddonah, who was the son of
Ishmael, who was a descendant of Aminadi; and it was the same
Aminadi who interpreted the writing which was upon the wall of
the temple, which was written by the finger of God.

 3 And Aminadi was a descendant of Nephi, who was the son of
Lehi, who came out of the land of Jerusalem, who was a descendant
of Manasseh, who was the son of Joseph who was sold into Egypt by
the hands of his brethren.

 4 And behold, I am also a man of no small reputation among all
those who know me; yea, and behold, I have many kindreds and
friends, and I have also acquired much riches by the hand of my
industry.

 5 Nevertheless, after all this, I never have known much of the
ways of the Lord, and his mysteries and marvelous power.  I said
I never had known much of these things; but behold, I mistake,
for I have seen much of his mysteries and his marvelous power;
yea, even in the preservation of the lives of this people.

 6 Nevertheless, I did harden my heart, for I was called many
times and I would not hear; therefore I knew concerning these
things, yet I would not know; therefore I went on rebelling
against God, in the wickedness of my heart, even until the fourth
day of this seventh month, which is in the tenth year of the
reign of the judges.

 7 As I was journeying to see a very near kindred, behold an
angel of the Lord appeared unto me and said: Amulek, return to
thine own house, for thou shalt feed a prophet of the Lord; yea,
a holy man, who is a chosen man of God; for he has fasted many
days because of the sins of this people, and he is an hungered,
and thou shalt receive him into thy house and feed him, and he
shall bless thee and thy house; and the blessing of the Lord
shall rest upon thee and thy house.

 8 And it came to pass that I obeyed the voice of the angel, and
returned towards my house.  And as I was going thither I found
the man whom the angel said unto me: Thou shalt receive into thy
house--and behold it was this same man who has been speaking unto
you concerning the things of God.

 9 And the angel said unto me he is a holy man; wherefore I know
he is a holy man because it was said by an angel of God.

 10 And again, I know that the things whereof he hath testified
are true; for behold I say unto you, that as the Lord liveth,
even so has he sent his angel to make these things manifest unto
me; and this he has done while this Alma hath dwelt at my house.

 11 For behold, he hath blessed mine house, he hath blessed me,
and my women, and my children, and my father and my kinsfolk;
yea, even all my kindred hath he blessed, and the blessing of the
Lord hath rested upon us according to the words which he spake.

 12 And now, when Amulek had spoken these words the people began
to be astonished, seeing there was more than one witness who
testified of the things whereof they were accused, and also of
the things which were to come, according to the spirit of
prophecy which was in them.

 13 Nevertheless, there were some among them who thought to
question them, that by their cunning devices they might catch
them in their words, that they might find witness against them,
that they might deliver them to their judges that they might be
judged according to the law, and that they might be slain or cast
into prison, according to the crime which they could make appear
or witness against them.

 14 Now it was those men who sought to destroy them, who were
lawyers, who were hired or appointed by the people to administer
the law at their times of trials, or at the trials of the crimes
of the people before the judges.

 15 Now these lawyers were learned in all the arts and cunning of
the people; and this was to enable them that they might be
skilful in their profession.

 16 And it came to pass that they began to question Amulek, that
thereby they might make him cross his words, or contradict the
words which he should speak.

 17 Now they knew not that Amulek could know of their designs. 
But it came to pass as they began to question him, he perceived
their thoughts, and he said unto them: O ye wicked and perverse
generation, ye lawyers and hypocrites, for ye are laying the
foundation of the devil; for ye are laying traps and snares to
catch the holy ones of God.

 18 Ye are laying plans to pervert the ways of the righteous, and
to bring down the wrath of God upon your heads, even to the utter
destruction of this people.

 19 Yea, well did Mosiah say, who was our last king, when he was
about to deliver up the kingdom, having no one to confer it upon,
causing that this people should be governed by their own
voices--yea, well did he say that if the time should come that
the voice of this people should choose iniquity, that is, if the
time should come that this people should fall into transgression,
they would be ripe for destruction.

 20 And now I say unto you that well doth the Lord judge of your
iniquities; well doth he cry unto this people, by the voice of
his angels: Repent ye, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at
hand.

 21 Yea, well doth he cry, by the voice of his angels that: I
will come down among my people, with equity and justice in my
hands.

 22 Yea, and I say unto you that if it were not for the prayers
of the righteous, who are now in the land, that ye would even now
be visited with utter destruction; yet it would not be by flood,
as were the people in the days of Noah, but it would be by
famine, and by pestilence, and the sword.

 23 But it is by the prayers of the righteous that ye are spared;
now therefore, if ye will cast out the righteous from among you
then will not the Lord stay his hand; but in his fierce anger he
will come out against you; then ye shall be smitten by famine,
and by pestilence, and by the sword; and the time is soon at hand
except ye repent.

 24 And now it came to pass that the people were more angry with
Amulek, and they cried out, saying: This man doth revile against
our laws which are just, and our wise lawyers whom we have
selected.

 25 But Amulek stretched forth his hand, and cried the mightier
unto them, saying: O ye wicked and perverse generation, why hath
Satan got such great hold upon your hearts?  Why will ye yield
yourselves unto him that he may have power over you, to blind
your eyes, that ye will not understand the words which are
spoken, according to their truth?

 26 For behold, have I testified against your law?  Ye do not
understand; ye say that I have spoken against your law; but I
have not, but I have spoken in favor of your law, to your
condemnation.

 27 And now behold, I say unto you, that the foundation of the
destruction of this people is beginning to be laid by the
unrighteousness of your lawyers and your judges.

 28 And now it came to pass that when Amulek had spoken these
words the people cried out against him, saying: Now we know that
this man is a child of the devil, for he hath lied unto us; for
he hath spoken against our law.  And now he says that he has not
spoken against it.

 29 And again, he has reviled against our lawyers, and our
judges.

 30 And it came to pass that the lawyers put it into their hearts
that they should remember these things against him.

 31 And there was one among them whose name was Zeezrom.  Now he
was the foremost to accuse Amulek and Alma, he being one of the
most expert among them, having much business to do among the
people.

 32 Now the object of these lawyers was to get gain; and they got
gain according to their employ.

Chapter 11

 1 Now it was in the law of Mosiah that every man who was a judge
of the law, or those who were appointed to be judges, should
receive wages according to the time which they labored to judge
those who were brought before them to be judged.

 2 Now if a man owed another, and he would not pay that which he
did owe, he was complained of to the judge; and the judge
executed authority, and sent forth officers that the man should
be brought before him; and he judged the man according to the law
and the evidences which were brought against him, and thus the
man was compelled to pay that which he owed, or be stripped, or
be cast out from among the people as a thief and a robber.

 3 And the judge received for his wages according to his time--a
senine of gold for a day, or a senum of silver, which is equal to
a senine of gold; and this is according to the law which was
given.

 4 Now these are the names of the different pieces of their gold,
and of their silver, according to their value.  And the names are
given by the Nephites, for they did not reckon after the manner
of the Jews who were at Jerusalem; neither did they measure after
the manner of the Jews; but they altered their reckoning and
their measure, according to the minds and the circumstances of
the people, in every generation, until the reign of the judges,
they having been established by king Mosiah.

 5 Now the reckoning is thus--a senine of gold, a seon of gold, a
shum of gold, and a limnah of gold.

 6 A senum of silver, an amnor of silver, an ezrom of silver, and
an onti of silver.

 7 A senum of silver was equal to a senine of gold, and either
for a measure of barley, and also for a measure of every kind of
grain.

 8 Now the amount of a seon of gold was twice the value of a
senine.

 9 And a shum of gold was twice the value of a seon.

 10 And a limnah of gold was the value of them all.

 11 And an amnor of silver was as great as two senums.

 12 And an ezrom of silver was as great as four senums.

 13 And an onti was as great as them all.

 14 Now this is the value of the lesser numbers of their
reckoning--

 15 A shiblon is half of a senum; therefore, a shiblon for half a
measure of barley.

 16 And a shiblum is a half of a shiblon.

 17 And a leah is the half of a shiblum.

 18 Now this is their number, according to their reckoning.

 19 Now an antion of gold is equal to three shiblons.

 20 Now, it was for the sole purpose to get gain, because they
received their wages according to their employ, therefore, they
did stir up the people to riotings, and all manner of
disturbances and wickedness, that they might have more employ,
that they might get money according to the suits which were
brought before them; therefore they did stir up the people
against Alma and Amulek.

 21 And this Zeezrom began to question Amulek, saying: Will ye
answer me a few questions which I shall ask you?  Now Zeezrom was
a man who was expert in the devices of the devil, that he might
destroy that which was good; therefore, he said unto Amulek: Will
ye answer the questions which I shall put unto you?

 22 And Amulek said unto him: Yea, if it be according to the
Spirit of the Lord, which is in me; for I shall say nothing which
is contrary to the Spirit of the Lord.  And Zeezrom said unto
him: Behold, here are six onties of silver, and all these will I
give thee if thou wilt deny the existence of a Supreme Being.

 23 Now Amulek said: O thou child of hell, why tempt ye me? 
Knowest thou that the righteous yieldeth to no such temptations?

 24 Believest thou that there is no God?  I say unto you, Nay,
thou knowest that there is a God, but thou lovest that lucre more
than him.

 25 And now thou hast lied before God unto me.  Thou saidst unto
me--Behold these six onties, which are of great worth, I will
give unto thee--when thou hadst it in thy heart to retain them
from me; and it was only thy desire that I should deny the true
and living God, that thou mightest have cause to destroy me.  And
now behold, for this great evil thou shalt have thy reward.

 26 And Zeezrom said unto him: Thou sayest there is a true and
living God?

 27 And Amulek said: Yea, there is a true and living God.

 28 Now Zeezrom said: Is there more than one God?

 29 And he answered, No.

 30 Now Zeezrom said unto him again: How knowest thou these
things?

 31 And he said: An angel hath made them known unto me.

 32 And Zeezrom said again: Who is he that shall come?  Is it the
Son of God?

 33 And he said unto him, Yea.

 34 And Zeezrom said again: Shall he save his people in their
sins?  And Amulek answered and said unto him: I say unto you he
shall not, for it is impossible for him to deny his word.

 35 Now Zeezrom said unto the people: See that ye remember these
things; for he said there is but one God; yet he saith that the
Son of God shall come, but he shall not save his people--as
though he had authority to command God.

 36 Now Amulek saith again unto him: Behold thou hast lied, for
thou sayest that I spake as though I had authority to command God
because I said he shall not save his people in their sins.

 37 And I say unto you again that he cannot save them in their
sins; for I cannot deny his word, and he hath said that no
unclean thing can inherit the kingdom of heaven; therefore, how
can ye be saved, except ye inherit the kingdom of heaven? 
Therefore, ye cannot be saved in your sins.

 38 Now Zeezrom saith again unto him: Is the Son of God the very
Eternal Father?

 39 And Amulek said unto him: Yea, he is the very Eternal Father
of heaven and of earth, and all things which in them are; he is
the beginning and the end, the first and the last;

 40 And he shall come into the world to redeem his people; and he
shall take upon him the transgressions of those who believe on
his name; and these are they that shall have eternal life, and
salvation cometh to none else.

 41 Therefore the wicked remain as though there had been no
redemption made, except it be the loosing of the bands of death;
for behold, the day cometh that all shall rise from the dead and
stand before God, and be judged according to their works.

 42 Now, there is a death which is called a temporal death; and
the death of Christ shall loose the bands of this temporal death,
that all shall be raised from this temporal death.

 43 The spirit and the body shall be reunited again in its
perfect form; both limb and joint shall be restored to its proper
frame, even as we now are at this time; and we shall be brought
to stand before God, knowing even as we know now, and have a
bright recollection of all our guilt.

 44 Now, this restoration shall come to all, both old and young,
both bond and free, both male and female, both the wicked and the
righteous; and even there shall not so much as a hair of their
heads be lost; but every thing shall be restored to its perfect
frame, as it is now, or in the body, and shall be brought and be
arraigned before the bar of Christ the Son, and God the Father,
and the Holy Spirit, which is one Eternal God, to be judged
according to their works, whether they be good or whether they be
evil.

 45 Now, behold, I have spoken unto you concerning the death of
the mortal body, and also concerning the resurrection of the
mortal body.  I say unto you that this mortal body is raised to
an immortal body, that is from death, even from the first death
unto life, that they can die no more; their spirits uniting with
their bodies, never to be divided; thus the whole becoming
spiritual and immortal, that they can no more see corruption.

 46 Now, when Amulek had finished these words the people began
again to be astonished, and also Zeezrom began to tremble.  And
thus ended the words of Amulek, or this is all that I have
written.

Chapter 12

 1 Now Alma, seeing that the words of Amulek had silenced
Zeezrom, for he beheld that Amulek had caught him in his lying
and deceiving to destroy him, and seeing that he began to tremble
under a consciousness of his guilt, he opened his mouth and began
to speak unto him, and to establish the words of Amulek, and to
explain things beyond, or to unfold the scriptures beyond that
which Amulek had done.

 2 Now the words that Alma spake unto Zeezrom were heard by the
people round about; for the multitude was great, and he spake on
this wise:

 3 Now Zeezrom, seeing that thou hast been taken in thy lying and
craftiness, for thou hast not lied unto men only but thou hast
lied unto God; for behold, he knows all thy thoughts, and thou
seest that thy thoughts are made known unto us by his Spirit;

 4 And thou seest that we know that thy plan was a very subtle
plan, as to the subtlety of the devil, for to lie and to deceive
this people that thou mightest set them against us, to revile us
and to cast us out--

 5 Now this was a plan of thine adversary, and he hath exercised
his power in thee.  Now I would that ye should remember that what
I say unto thee I say unto all.

 6 And behold I say unto you all that this was a snare of the
adversary, which he has laid to catch this people, that he might
bring you into subjection unto him, that he might encircle you
about with his chains, that he might chain you down to
everlasting destruction, according to the power of his captivity.

 7 Now when Alma had spoken these words, Zeezrom began to tremble
more exceedingly, for he was convinced more and more of the power
of God; and he was also convinced that Alma and Amulek had a
knowledge of him, for he was convinced that they knew the
thoughts and intents of his heart; for power was given unto them
that they might know of these things according to the spirit of
prophecy.

 8 And Zeezrom began to inquire of them diligently, that he might
know more concerning the kingdom of God.  And he said unto Alma:
What does this mean which Amulek hath spoken concerning the
resurrection of the dead, that all shall rise from the dead, both
the just and the unjust, and are brought to stand before God to
be judged according to their works?

 9 And now Alma began to expound these things unto him, saying:
It is given unto many to know the mysteries of God; nevertheless
they are laid under a strict command that they shall not impart
only according to the portion of his word which he doth grant
unto the children of men, according to the heed and diligence
which they give unto him.

 10 And therefore, he that will harden his heart, the same
receiveth the lesser portion of the word; and he that will not
harden his heart, to him is given the greater portion of the
word, until it is given unto him to know the mysteries of God
until he know them in full.

 11 And they that will harden their hearts, to them is given the
lesser portion of the word until they know nothing concerning his
mysteries; and then they are taken captive by the devil, and led
by his will down to destruction.  Now this is what is meant by
the chains of hell.

 12 And Amulek hath spoken plainly concerning death, and being
raised from this mortality to a state of immortality, and being
brought before the bar of God, to be judged according to our
works.

 13 Then if our hearts have been hardened, yea, if we have
hardened our hearts against the word, insomuch that it has not
been found in us, then will our state be awful, for then we shall
be condemned.

 14 For our words will condemn us, yea, all our works will
condemn us; we shall not be found spotless; and our thoughts will
also condemn us; and in this awful state we shall not dare to
look up to our God; and we would fain be glad if we could command
the rocks and the mountains to fall upon us to hide us from his
presence.

 15 But this cannot be; we must come forth and stand before him
in his glory, and in his power, and in his might, majesty, and
dominion, and acknowledge to our everlasting shame that all his
judgments are just; that he is just in all his works, and that he
is merciful unto the children of men, and that he has all power
to save every man that believeth on his name and bringeth forth
fruit meet for repentance.

 16 And now behold, I say unto you then cometh a death, even a
second death, which is a spiritual death; then is a time that
whosoever dieth in his sins, as to a temporal death, shall also
die a spiritual death; yea, he shall die as to things pertaining
unto righteousness.

 17 Then is the time when their torments shall be as a lake of
fire and brimstone, whose flame ascendeth up forever and ever;
and then is the time that they shall be chained down to an
everlasting destruction, according to the power and captivity of
Satan, he having subjected them according to his will.

 18 Then, I say unto you, they shall be as though there had been
no redemption made; for they cannot be redeemed according to
God's justice; and they cannot die, seeing there is no more
corruption.

 19 Now it came to pass that when Alma had made an end of
speaking these words, the people began to be more astonished;

 20 But there was one Antionah, who was a chief ruler among them,
came forth and said unto him: What is this that thou hast said,
that man should rise from the dead and be changed from this
mortal to an immortal state that the soul can never die?

 21 What does the scripture mean, which saith that God placed
cherubim and a flaming sword on the east of the garden of Eden,
lest our first parents should enter and partake of the fruit of
the tree of life, and live forever?  And thus we see that there
was no possible chance that they should live forever.

 22 Now Alma said unto him:  This is the thing which I was about
to explain, now we see that Adam did fall by the partaking of the
forbidden fruit, according to the word of God; and thus we see,
that by his fall, all mankind became a lost and fallen people.

 23 And now behold, I say unto you that if it had been possible
for Adam to have partaken of the fruit of the tree of life at
that time, there would have been no death, and the word would
have been void, making God a liar, for he said: If thou eat thou
shalt surely die.

 24 And we see that death comes upon mankind, yea, the death
which has been spoken of by Amulek, which is the temporal death;
nevertheless there was a space granted unto man in which he might
repent; therefore this life became a probationary state; a time
to prepare to meet God; a time to prepare for that endless state
which has been spoken of by us, which is after the resurrection
of the dead.

 25 Now, if it had not been for the plan of redemption, which was
laid from the foundation of the world, there could have been no
resurrection of the dead; but there was a plan of redemption
laid, which shall bring to pass the resurrection of the dead, of
which has been spoken.

 26 And now behold, if it were possible that our first parents
could have gone forth and partaken of the tree of life they would
have been forever miserable, having no preparatory state; and
thus the plan of redemption would have been frustrated, and the
word of God would have been void, taking none effect.

 27 But behold, it was not so; but it was appointed unto men that
they must die; and after death, they must come to judgment, even
that same judgment of which we have spoken, which is the end.

 28 And after God had appointed that these things should come
unto man, behold, then he saw that it was expedient that man
should know concerning the things whereof he had appointed unto
them;

 29 Therefore he sent angels to converse with them, who caused
men to behold of his glory.

 30 And they began from that time forth to call on his name;
therefore God conversed with men, and made known unto them the
plan of redemption, which had been prepared from the foundation
of the world; and this he made known unto them according to their
faith and repentance and their holy works.

 31 Wherefore, he gave commandments unto men, they having first
transgressed the first commandments as to things which were
temporal, and becoming as Gods, knowing good from evil, placing
themselves in a state to act, or being placed in a state to act
according to their wills and pleasures, whether to do evil or to
do good--

 32 Therefore God gave unto them commandments, after having made
known unto them the plan of redemption, that they should not do
evil, the penalty thereof being a second death, which was an
everlasting death as to things pertaining unto righteousness; for
on such the plan of redemption could have no power, for the works
of justice could not be destroyed, according to the supreme
goodness of God.

 33 But God did call on men, in the name of his Son, (this being
the plan of redemption which was laid) saying: If ye will repent
and harden not your hearts, then will I have mercy upon you,
through mine Only Begotten Son;

 34 Therefore, whosoever repenteth, and hardeneth not his heart,
he shall have claim on mercy through mine Only Begotten Son, unto
a remission of his sins; and these shall enter into my rest.

 35 And whosoever will harden his heart and will do iniquity,
behold, I swear in my wrath that he shall not enter into my rest.

 36 And now, my brethren, behold I say unto you, that if ye will
harden your hearts ye shall not enter into the rest of the Lord;
therefore your iniquity provoketh him that he sendeth down his
wrath upon you as in the first provocation, yea, according to his
word in the last provocation as well as the first, to the
everlasting destruction of your souls; therefore, according to
his word, unto the last death, as well as the first.

 37 And now, my brethren, seeing we know these things, and they
are true, let us repent, and harden not our hearts, that we
provoke not the Lord our God to pull down his wrath upon us in
these his second commandments which he has given unto us; but let
us enter into the rest of God, which is prepared according to his
word.

Chapter 13

 1 And again, my brethren, I would cite your minds forward to the
time when the Lord God gave these commandments unto his children;
and I would that ye should remember that the Lord God ordained
priests, after his holy order, which was after the order of his
Son, to teach these things unto the people.

 2 And those priests were ordained after the order of his Son, in
a manner that thereby the people might know in what manner to
look forward to his Son for redemption.

 3 And this is the manner after which they were ordained--being
called and prepared from the foundation of the world according to
the foreknowledge of God, on account of their exceeding faith and
good works; in the first place being left to choose good or evil;
therefore they having chosen good, and exercising exceedingly
great faith, are called with a holy calling, yea, with that holy
calling which was prepared with, and according to, a preparatory
redemption for such.

 4 And thus they have been called to this holy calling on account
of their faith, while others would reject the Spirit of God on
account of the hardness of their hearts and blindness of their
minds, while, if it had not been for this they might have had as
great privilege as their brethren.

 5 Or in fine, in the first place they were on the same standing
with their brethren; thus this holy calling being prepared from
the foundation of the world for such as would not harden their
hearts, being in and through the atonement of the Only Begotten
Son, who was prepared--

 6 And thus being called by this holy calling, and ordained unto
the high priesthood of the holy order of God, to teach his
commandments unto the children of men, that they also might enter
into his rest--

 7 This high priesthood being after the order of his Son, which
order was from the foundation of the world; or in other words,
being without beginning of days or end of years, being prepared
from eternity to all eternity, according to his foreknowledge of
all things--

 8 Now they were ordained after this manner--being called with a
holy calling, and ordained with a holy ordinance, and taking upon
them the high priesthood of the holy order, which calling, and
ordinance, and high priesthood, is without beginning or end--

 9 Thus they become high priests forever, after the order of the
Son, the Only Begotten of the Father, who is without beginning of
days or end of years, who is full of grace, equity, and truth. 
And thus it is.  Amen.

 10 Now, as I said concerning the holy order, or this high
priesthood, there were many who were ordained and became high
priests of God; and it was on account of their exceeding faith
and repentance, and their righteousness before God, they choosing
to repent and work righteousness rather than to perish;

 11 Therefore they were called after this holy order, and were
sanctified, and their garments were washed white through the
blood of the Lamb.

 12 Now they, after being sanctified by the Holy Ghost, having
their garments made white, being pure and spotless before God,
could not look upon sin save it were with abhorrence; and there
were many, exceedingly great many, who were made pure and entered
into the rest of the Lord their God.

 13 And now, my brethren, I would that ye should humble
yourselves before God, and bring forth fruit meet for repentance,
that ye may also enter into that rest.

 14 Yea, humble yourselves even as the people in the days of
Melchizedek, who was also a high priest after this same order
which I have spoken, who also took upon him the high priesthood
forever.

 15 And it was this same Melchizedek to whom Abraham paid tithes;
yea, even our father Abraham paid tithes of one-tenth part of all
he possessed.

 16 Now these ordinances were given after this manner, that
thereby the people might look forward on the Son of God, it being
a type of his order, or it being his order, and this that they
might look forward to him for a remission of their sins, that
they might enter into the rest of the Lord.

 17 Now this Melchizedek was a king over the land of Salem; and
his people had waxed strong in iniquity and abomination; yea,
they had all gone astray; they were full of all manner of
wickedness;

 18 But Melchizedek having exercised mighty faith, and received
the office of the high priesthood according to the holy order of
God, did preach repentance unto his people.  And behold, they did
repent; and Melchizedek did establish peace in the land in his
days; therefore he was called the prince of peace, for he was the
king of Salem; and he did reign under his father.

 19 Now, there were many before him, and also there were many
afterwards, but none were greater; therefore, of him they have
more particularly made mention.

 20 Now I need not rehearse the matter; what I have said may
suffice.  Behold, the scriptures are before you; if ye will wrest
them it shall be to your own destruction.

 21 And now it came to pass that when Alma had said these words
unto them, he stretched forth his hand unto them and cried with a
mighty voice, saying: Now is the time to repent, for the day of
salvation draweth nigh;

 22 Yea, and the voice of the Lord, by the mouth of angels, doth
declare it unto all nations; yea, doth declare it, that they may
have glad tidings of great joy; yea, and he doth sound these glad
tidings among all his people, yea, even to them that are
scattered abroad upon the face of the earth; wherefore they have
come unto us.

 23 And they are made known unto us in plain terms, that we may
understand, that we cannot err; and this because of our being
wanderers in a strange land; therefore, we are thus highly
favored, for we have these glad tidings declared unto us in all
parts of our vineyard.

 24 For behold, angels are declaring it unto many at this time in
our land; and this is for the purpose of preparing the hearts of
the children of men to receive his word at the time of his coming
in his glory.

 25 And now we only wait to hear the joyful news declared unto us
by the mouth of angels, of his coming; for the time cometh, we
know not how soon.  Would to God that it might be in my day; but
let it be sooner or later, in it I will rejoice.

 26 And it shall be made known unto just and holy men, by the
mouth of angels, at the time of his coming, that the words of our
fathers may be fulfilled, according to that which they have
spoken concerning him, which was according to the spirit of
prophecy which was in them.

 27 And now, my brethren, I wish from the inmost part of my
heart, yea, with great anxiety even unto pain, that ye would
hearken unto my words, and cast off your sins, and not
procrastinate the day of your repentance;

 28 But that ye would humble yourselves before the Lord, and call
on his holy name, and watch and pray continually, that ye may not
be tempted above that which ye can bear, and thus be led by the
Holy Spirit, becoming humble, meek, submissive, patient, full of
love and all long-suffering;

 29 Having faith on the Lord; having a hope that ye shall receive
eternal life; having the love of God always in your hearts, that
ye may be lifted up at the last day and enter into his rest.

 30 And may the Lord grant unto you repentance, that ye may not
bring down his wrath upon you, that ye may not be bound down by
the chains of hell, that ye may not suffer the second death.

 31 And Alma spake many more words unto the people, which are not
written in this book.

Chapter 14

 1 And it came to pass after he had made an end of speaking unto
the people many of them did believe on his words, and began to
repent, and to search the scriptures.

 2 But the more part of them were desirous that they might
destroy Alma and Amulek; for they were angry with Alma, because
of the plainness of his words unto Zeezrom; and they also said
that Amulek had lied unto them, and had reviled against their law
and also against their lawyers and judges.

 3 And they were also angry with Alma and Amulek; and because
they had testified so plainly against their wickedness, they
sought to put them away privily.

 4 But it came to pass that they did not; but they took them and
bound them with strong cords, and took them before the chief
judge of the land.

 5 And the people went forth and witnessed against
them--testifying that they had reviled against the law, and their
lawyers and judges of the land, and also of all the people that
were in the land; and also testified that there was but one God,
and that he should send his Son among the people, but he should
not save them; and many such things did the people testify
against Alma and Amulek.  Now this was done before the chief
judge of the land.

 6 And it came to pass that Zeezrom was astonished at the words
which had been spoken; and he also knew concerning the blindness
of the minds, which he had caused among the people by his lying
words; and his soul began to be harrowed up under a consciousness
of his own guilt; yea, he began to be encircled about by the
pains of hell.

 7 And it came to pass that he began to cry unto the people,
saying: Behold, I am guilty, and these men are spotless before
God.  And he began to plead for them from that time forth; but
they reviled him, saying: Art thou also possessed with the devil?

And they spit upon him, and cast him out from among them, and
also all those who believed in the words which had been spoken by
Alma and Amulek; and they cast them out, and sent men to cast
stones at them.

 8 And they brought their wives and children together, and
whosoever believed or had been taught to believe in the word of
God they caused that they should be cast into the fire, and they
also brought forth their records which contained the holy
scriptures, and cast them into the fire also, that they might be
burned and destroyed by fire.

 9 And it came to pass that they took Alma and Amulek, and
carried them forth to the place of martyrdom, that they might
witness the destruction of those who were consumed by fire.

 10 And when Amulek saw the pains of the women and children who
were consuming in the fire, he also was pained; and he said unto
Alma: How can we witness this awful scene?  Therefore let us
stretch forth our hands, and exercise the power of God which is
in us, and save them from the flames.

 11 But Alma said unto him: The Spirit constraineth me that I
must not stretch forth mine hand; for behold the Lord receiveth
them up unto himself, in glory; and he doth suffer that they may
do this thing, or that the people may do this thing unto them,
according to the hardness of their hearts, that the judgments
which he shall exercise upon them in his wrath may be just; and
the blood of the innocent shall stand as a witness against them,
yea, and cry mightily against them at the last day.

 12 Now Amulek said unto Alma: Behold, perhaps they will burn us
also.

 13 And Alma said: Be it according to the will of the Lord.  But,
behold, our work is not finished; therefore they burn us not.

 14 Now it came to pass that when the bodies of those who had
been cast into the fire were consumed, and also the records which
were cast in with them, the chief judge of the land came and
stood before Alma and Amulek, as they were bound; and he smote
them with his hand upon their cheeks, and said unto them: After
what ye have seen, will ye preach again unto this people, that
they shall be cast into a lake of fire and brimstone?

 15 Behold, ye see that ye had not power to save those who had
been cast into the fire; neither has God saved them because they
were of thy faith.  And the judge smote them again upon their
cheeks, and asked: What say ye for yourselves?

 16 Now this judge was after the order and faith of Nehor, who
slew Gideon.

 17 And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek answered him
nothing; and he smote them again, and delivered them to the
officers to be cast into prison.

 18 And when they had been cast into prison three days, there
came many lawyers, and judges, and priests, and teachers, who
were of the profession of Nehor; and they came in unto the prison
to see them, and they questioned them about many words; but they
answered them nothing.

 19 And it came to pass that the judge stood before them, and
said: Why do ye not answer the words of this people?  Know ye not
that I have power to deliver you up unto the flames?  And he
commanded them to speak; but they answered nothing.

 20 And it came to pass that they departed and went their ways,
but came again on the morrow; and the judge also smote them again
on their cheeks.  And many came forth also, and smote them,
saying: Will ye stand again and judge this people, and condemn
our law?  If ye have such great power why do ye not deliver
yourselves?

 21 And many such things did they say unto them, gnashing their
teeth upon them, and spitting upon them, and saying: How shall we
look when we are damned?

 22 And many such things, yea, all manner of such things did they
say unto them; and thus they did mock them for many days.  And
they did withhold food from them that they might hunger, and
water that they might thirst; and they also did take from them
their clothes that they were naked; and thus they were bound with
strong cords, and confined in prison.

 23 And it came to pass after they had thus suffered for many
days, (and it was on the twelfth day, in the tenth month, in the
tenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi)
that the chief judge over the land of Ammonihah and many of their
teachers and their lawyers went in unto the prison where Alma and
Amulek were bound with cords.

 24 And the chief judge stood before them, and smote them again,
and said unto them: If ye have the power of God deliver
yourselves from these bands, and then we will believe that the
Lord will destroy this people according to your words.

 25 And it came to pass that they all went forth and smote them,
saying the same words, even until the last; and when the last had
spoken unto them the power of God was upon Alma and Amulek, and
they rose and stood upon their feet.

 26 And Alma cried, saying: How long shall we suffer these great
afflictions, O Lord?  O Lord, give us strength according to our
faith which is in Christ, even unto deliverance.  And they broke
the cords with which they were bound; and when the people saw
this, they began to flee, for the fear of destruction had come
upon them.

 27 And it came to pass that so great was their fear that they
fell to the earth, and did not obtain the outer door of the
prison; and the earth shook mightily, and the walls of the prison
were rent in twain, so that they fell to the earth; and the chief
judge, and the lawyers, and priests, and teachers, who smote upon
Alma and Amulek, were slain by the fall thereof.

 28 And Alma and Amulek came forth out of the prison, and they
were not hurt; for the Lord had granted unto them power,
according to their faith which was in Christ.  And they
straightway came forth out of the prison; and they were loosed
from their bands; and the prison had fallen to the earth, and
every soul within the walls thereof, save it were Alma and
Amulek, was slain; and they straightway came forth into the city.

 29 Now the people having heard a great noise came running
together by multitudes to know the cause of it; and when they saw
Alma and Amulek coming forth out of the prison, and the walls
thereof had fallen to the earth, they were struck with great
fear, and fled from the presence of Alma and Amulek even as a
goat fleeth with her young from two lions; and thus they did flee
from the presence of Alma and Amulek.

Chapter 15

 1 And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek were commanded to
depart out of that city; and they departed, and came out even
into the land of Sidom; and behold, there they found all the
people who had departed out of the land of Ammonihah, who had
been cast out and stoned, because they believed in the words of
Alma.

 2 And they related unto them all that had happened unto their
wives and children, and also concerning themselves, and of their
power of deliverance.

 3 And also Zeezrom lay sick at Sidom, with a burning fever,
which was caused by the great tribulations of his mind on account
of his wickedness, for he supposed that Alma and Amulek were no
more; and he supposed that they had been slain because of his
iniquity.  And this great sin, and his many other sins, did
harrow up his mind until it did become exceedingly sore, having
no deliverance; therefore he began to be scorched with a burning
heat.

 4 Now, when he heard that Alma and Amulek were in the land of
Sidom, his heart began to take courage; and he sent a message
immediately unto them, desiring them to come unto him.

 5 And it came to pass that they went immediately, obeying the
message which he had sent unto them; and they went in unto the
house unto Zeezrom; and they found him upon his bed, sick, being
very low with a burning fever; and his mind also was exceedingly
sore because of his iniquities; and when he saw them he stretched
forth his hand, and besought them that they would heal him.

 6 And it came to pass that Alma said unto him, taking him by the
hand: Believest thou in the power of Christ unto salvation?

 7 And he answered and said: Yea, I believe all the words that
thou hast taught.

 8 And Alma said: If thou believest in the redemption of Christ
thou canst be healed.

 9 And he said: Yea, I believe according to thy words.

 10 And then Alma cried unto the Lord, saying: O Lord our God,
have mercy on this man, and heal him according to his faith which
is in Christ.

 11 And when Alma had said these words, Zeezrom leaped upon his
feet, and began to walk; and this was done to the great
astonishment of all the people; and the knowledge of this went
forth throughout all the land of Sidom.

 12 And Alma baptized Zeezrom unto the Lord; and he began from
that time forth to preach unto the people.

 13 And Alma established a church in the land of Sidom, and
consecrated priests and teachers in the land, to baptize unto the
Lord whosoever were desirous to be baptized.

 14 And it came to pass that they were many; for they did flock
in from all the region round about Sidom, and were baptized.

 15 But as to the people that were in the land of Ammonihah, they
yet remained a hard-hearted and a stiffnecked people; and they
repented not of their sins, ascribing all the power of Alma and
Amulek to the devil; for they were of the profession of Nehor,
and did not believe in the repentance of their sins.

 16 And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek, Amulek having
forsaken all his gold, and silver, and his precious things, which
were in the land of Ammonihah, for the word of God, he being
rejected by those who were once his friends and also by his
father and his kindred;

 17 Therefore, after Alma having established the church at Sidom,
seeing a great check, yea, seeing that the people were checked as
to the pride of their hearts, and began to humble themselves
before God, and began to assemble themselves together at their
sanctuaries to worship God before the altar, watching and praying
continually, that they might be delivered from Satan, and from
death, and from destruction--

 18 Now as I said, Alma having seen all these things, therefore
he took Amulek and came over to the land of Zarahemla, and took
him to his own house, and did administer unto him in his
tribulations, and strengthened him in the Lord.

 19 And thus ended the tenth year of the reign of the judges over
the people of Nephi.

Chapter 16

 1 And it came to pass in the eleventh year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi, on the fifth day of the second
month, there having been much peace in the land of Zarahemla,
there having been no wars nor contentions for a certain number of
years, even until the fifth day of the second month in the
eleventh year, there was a cry of war heard throughout the land.

 2 For behold, the armies of the Lamanites had come in upon the
wilderness side, into the borders of the land, even into the city
of Ammonihah, and began to slay the people and destroy the city.

 3 And now it came to pass, before the Nephites could raise a
sufficient army to drive them out of the land, they had destroyed
the people who were in the city of Ammonihah, and also some
around the borders of Noah, and taken others captive into the
wilderness.

 4 Now it came to pass that the Nephites were desirous to obtain
those who had been carried away captive into the wilderness.

 5 Therefore, he that had been appointed chief captain over the
armies of the Nephites, (and his name was Zoram, and he had two
sons, Lehi and Aha)--now Zoram and his two sons, knowing that
Alma was high priest over the church, and having heard that he
had the spirit of prophecy, therefore they went unto him and
desired of him to know whither the Lord would that they should go
into the wilderness in search of their brethren, who had been
taken captive by the Lamanites.

 6 And it came to pass that Alma inquired of the Lord concerning
the matter.  And Alma returned and said unto them: Behold, the
Lamanites will cross the river Sidon in the south wilderness,
away up beyond the borders of the land of Manti.  And behold
there shall ye meet them, on the east of the river Sidon, and
there the Lord will deliver unto thee thy brethren who have been
taken captive by the Lamanites.

 7 And it came to pass that Zoram and his sons crossed over the
river Sidon, with their armies, and marched away beyond the
borders of Manti into the south wilderness, which was on the east
side of the river Sidon.

 8 And they came upon the armies of the Lamanites, and the
Lamanites were scattered and driven into the wilderness; and they
took their brethren who had been taken captive by the Lamanites,
and there was not one soul of them had been lost that were taken
captive.  And they were brought by their brethren to possess
their own lands.

 9 And thus ended the eleventh year of the judges, the Lamanites
having been driven out of the land, and the people of Ammonihah
were destroyed; yea, every living soul of the Ammonihahites was
destroyed, and also their great city, which they said God could
not destroy, because of its greatness.

 10 But behold, in one day it was left desolate; and the
carcasses were mangled by dogs and wild beasts of the wilderness.

 11 Nevertheless, after many days their dead bodies were heaped
up upon the face of the earth, and they were covered with a
shallow covering.  And now so great was the scent thereof that
the people did not go in to possess the land of Ammonihah for
many years.  And it was called Desolation of Nehors; for they
were of the profession of Nehor, who were slain; and their lands
remained desolate.

 12 And the Lamanites did not come again to war against the
Nephites until the fourteenth year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi.  And thus for three years did the
people of Nephi have continual peace in all the land.

 13 And Alma and Amulek went forth preaching repentance to the
people in their temples, and in their sanctuaries, and also in
their synagogues, which were built after the manner of the Jews.

 14 And as many as would hear their words, unto them they did
impart the word of God, without any respect of persons,
continually.

 15 And thus did Alma and Amulek go forth, and also many more who
had been chosen for the work, to preach the word throughout all
the land.  And the establishment of the church became general
throughout the land, in all the region round about, among all the
people of the Nephites.

 16 And there was no inequality among them; the Lord did pour out
his Spirit on all the face of the land to prepare the minds of
the children of men, or to prepare their hearts to receive the
word which should be taught among them at the time of his
coming--

 17 That they might not be hardened against the word, that they
might not be unbelieving, and go on to destruction, but that they
might receive the word with joy, and as a branch be grafted into
the true vine, that they might enter into the rest of the Lord
their God.

 18 Now those priests who did go forth among the people did
preach against all lyings, and deceivings, and envyings, and
strifes, and malice, and revilings, and stealing, robbing,
plundering, murdering, committing adultery, and all manner of
lasciviousness, crying that these things ought not so to be--

 19 Holding forth things which must shortly come; yea, holding
forth the coming of the Son of God, his sufferings and death, and
also the resurrection of the dead.

 20 And many of the people did inquire concerning the place where
the Son of God should come; and they were taught that he would
appear unto them after his resurrection; and this the people did
hear with great joy and gladness.

 21 And now after the church had been established throughout all
the land--having got the victory over the devil, and the word of
God being preached in its purity in all the land, and the Lord
pouring out his blessings upon the people--thus ended the
fourteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of
Nephi.

Chapter 17

 1 And now it came to pass that as Alma was journeying from the
land of Gideon southward, away to the land of Manti, behold, to
his astonishment, he met with the sons of Mosiah journeying
towards the land of Zarahemla.

 2 Now these sons of Mosiah were with Alma at the time the angel
first appeared unto him; therefore Alma did rejoice exceedingly
to see his brethren; and what added more to his joy, they were
still his brethren in the Lord; yea, and they had waxed strong in
the knowledge of the truth; for they were men of a sound
understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently,
that they might know the word of God.

 3 But this is not all; they had given themselves to much prayer,
and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the
spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with
power and authority of God.

 4 And they had been teaching the word of God for the space of
fourteen years among the Lamanites, having had much success in
bringing many to the knowledge of the truth; yea, by the power of
their words many were brought before the altar of God, to call on
his name and confess their sins before him.

 5 Now these are the circumstances which attended them in their
journeyings, for they had many afflictions; they did suffer much,
both in body and in mind, such as hunger, thirst and fatigue, and
also much labor in the spirit.

 6 Now these were their journeyings: Having taken leave of their
father, Mosiah, in the first year of the judges; having refused
the kingdom which their father was desirous to confer upon them,
and also this was the minds of the people;

 7 Nevertheless they departed out of the land of Zarahemla, and
took their swords, and their spears, and their bows, and their
arrows, and their slings; and this they did that they might
provide food for themselves while in the wilderness.

 8 And thus they departed into the wilderness with their numbers
which they had selected, to go up to the land of Nephi, to preach
the word of God unto the Lamanites.

 9 And it came to pass that they journeyed many days in the
wilderness, and they fasted much and prayed much that the Lord
would grant unto them a portion of his Spirit to go with them,
and abide with them, that they might be an instrument in the
hands of God to bring, if it were possible, their brethren, the
Lamanites, to the knowledge of the truth, to the knowledge of the
baseness of the traditions of their fathers, which were not
correct.

 10 And it came to pass that the Lord did visit them with his
Spirit, and said unto them: Be comforted.  And they were
comforted.

 11 And the Lord said unto them also: Go forth among the
Lamanites, thy brethren, and establish my word; yet ye shall be
patient in long-suffering and afflictions, that ye may show forth
good examples unto them in me, and I will make an instrument of
thee in my hands unto the salvation of many souls.

 12 And it came to pass that the hearts of the sons of Mosiah,
and also those who were with them, took courage to go forth unto
the Lamanites to declare unto them the word of God.

 13 And it came to pass when they had arrived in the borders of
the land of the Lamanites, that they separated themselves and
departed one from another, trusting in the Lord that they should
meet again at the close of their harvest; for they supposed that
great was the work which they had undertaken.

 14 And assuredly it was great, for they had undertaken to preach
the word of God to a wild and a hardened and a ferocious people;
a people who delighted in murdering the Nephites, and robbing and
plundering them; and their hearts were set upon riches, or upon
gold and silver, and precious stones; yet they sought to obtain
these things by murdering and plundering, that they might not
labor for them with their own hands.

 15 Thus they were a very indolent people, many of whom did
worship idols, and the curse of God had fallen upon them because
of the traditions of their fathers; notwithstanding the promises
of the Lord were extended unto them on the conditions of
repentance.

 16 Therefore, this was the cause for which the sons of Mosiah
had undertaken the work, that perhaps they might bring them unto
repentance; that perhaps they might bring them to know of the
plan of redemption.

 17 Therefore they separated themselves one from another, and
went forth among them, every man alone, according to the word and
power of God which was given unto him.

 18 Now Ammon being the chief among them, or rather he did
administer unto them, and he departed from them, after having
blessed them according to their several stations, having imparted
the word of God unto them, or administered unto them before his
departure; and thus they took their several journeys throughout
the land.

 19 And Ammon went to the land of Ishmael, the land being called
after the sons of Ishmael, who also became Lamanites.

 20 And as Ammon entered the land of Ishmael, the Lamanites took
him and bound him, as was their custom to bind all the Nephites
who fell into their hands, and carry them before the king; and
thus it was left to the pleasure of the king to slay them, or to
retain them in captivity, or to cast them into prison, or to cast
them out of his land, according to his will and pleasure.

 21 And thus Ammon was carried before the king who was over the
land of Ishmael; and his name was Lamoni; and he was a descendant
of Ishmael.

 22 And the king inquired of Ammon if it were his desire to dwell
in the land among the Lamanites, or among his people.

 23 And Ammon said unto him: Yea, I desire to dwell among this
people for a time; yea, and perhaps until the day I die.

 24 And it came to pass that king Lamoni was much pleased with
Ammon, and caused that his bands should be loosed; and he would
that Ammon should take one of his daughters to wife.

 25 But Ammon said unto him: Nay, but I will be thy servant. 
Therefore Ammon became a servant to king Lamoni.  And it came to
pass that he was set among other servants to watch the flocks of
Lamoni, according to the custom of the Lamanites.

 26 And after he had been in the service of the king three days,
as he was with the Lamanitish servants going forth with their
flocks to the place of water, which was called the water of
Sebus, and all the Lamanites drive their flocks hither, that they
may have water--

 27 Therefore, as Ammon and the servants of the king were driving
forth their flocks to this place of water, behold, a certain
number of the Lamanites, who had been with their flocks to water,
stood and scattered the flocks of Ammon and the servants of the
king, and they scattered them insomuch that they fled many ways.

 28 Now the servants of the king began to murmur, saying: Now the
king will slay us, as he has our brethren because their flocks
were scattered by the wickedness of these men.  And they began to
weep exceedingly, saying: Behold, our flocks are scattered
already.

 29 Now they wept because of the fear of being slain.  Now when
Ammon saw this his heart was swollen within him with joy; for,
said he, I will show forth my power unto these my
fellow-servants, or the power which is in me, in restoring these
flocks unto the king, that I may win the hearts of these my
fellow-servants, that I may lead them to believe in my words.

 30 And now, these were the thoughts of Ammon, when he saw the
afflictions of those whom he termed to be his brethren.

 31 And it came to pass that he flattered them by his words,
saying: My brethren, be of good cheer and let us go in search of
the flocks, and we will gather them together and bring them back
unto the place of water; and thus we will preserve the flocks
unto the king and he will not slay us.

 32 And it came to pass that they went in search of the flocks,
and they did follow Ammon, and they rushed forth with much
swiftness and did head the flocks of the king, and did gather
them together again to the place of water.

 33 And those men again stood to scatter their flocks; but Ammon
said unto his brethren: Encircle the flocks round about that they
flee not; and I go and contend with these men who do scatter our
flocks.

 34 Therefore, they did as Ammon commanded them, and he went
forth and stood to contend with those who stood by the waters of
Sebus; and they were in number not a few.

 35 Therefore they did not fear Ammon, for they supposed that one
of their men could slay him according to their pleasure, for they
knew not that the Lord had promised Mosiah that he would deliver
his sons out of their hands; neither did they know anything
concerning the Lord; therefore they delighted in the destruction
of their brethren; and for this cause they stood to scatter the
flocks of the king.

 36 But Ammon stood forth and began to cast stones at them with
his sling; yea, with mighty power he did sling stones amongst
them; and thus he slew a certain number of them insomuch that
they began to be astonished at his power; nevertheless they were
angry because of the slain of their brethren, and they were
determined that he should fall; therefore, seeing that they could
not hit him with their stones, they came forth with clubs to slay
him.

 37 But behold, every man that lifted his club to smite Ammon, he
smote off their arms with his sword; for he did withstand their
blows by smiting their arms with the edge of his sword, insomuch
that they began to be astonished, and began to flee before him;
yea, and they were not few in number; and he caused them to flee
by the strength of his arm.

 38 Now six of them had fallen by the sling, but he slew none
save it were their leader with his sword; and he smote off as
many of their arms as were lifted against him, and they were not
a few.

 39 And when he had driven them afar off, he returned and they
watered their flocks and returned them to the pasture of the
king, and then went in unto the king, bearing the arms which had
been smitten off by the sword of Ammon, of those who sought to
slay him; and they were carried in unto the king for a testimony
of the things which they had done.

Chapter 18

 1 And it came to pass that king Lamoni caused that his servants
should stand forth and testify to all the things which they had
seen concerning the matter.

 2 And when they had all testified to the things which they had
seen, and he had learned of the faithfulness of Ammon in
preserving his flocks, and also of his great power in contending
against those who sought to slay him, he was astonished
exceedingly, and said: Surely, this is more than a man.  Behold,
is not this the Great Spirit who doth send such great punishments
upon this people, because of their murders?

 3 And they answered the king, and said: Whether he be the Great
Spirit or a man, we know not; but this much we do know, that he
cannot be slain by the enemies of the king; neither can they
scatter the king's flocks when he is with us, because of his
expertness and great strength; therefore, we know that he is a
friend to the king.  And now, O king, we do not believe that a
man has such great power, for we know he cannot be slain.

 4 And now, when the king heard these words, he said unto them:
Now I know that it is the Great Spirit; and he has come down at
this time to preserve your lives, that I might not slay you as I
did your brethren.  Now this is the Great Spirit of whom our
fathers have spoken.

 5 Now this was the tradition of Lamoni, which he had received
from his father, that there was a Great Spirit.  Notwithstanding
they believed in a Great Spirit they supposed that whatsoever
they did was right; nevertheless, Lamoni began to fear
exceedingly, with fear lest he had done wrong in slaying his
servants;

 6 For he had slain many of them because their brethren had
scattered their flocks at the place of water; and thus, because
they had had their flocks scattered they were slain.

 7 Now it was the practice of these Lamanites to stand by the
waters of Sebus to scatter the flocks of the people, that thereby
they might drive away many that were scattered unto their own
land, it being a practice of plunder among them.

 8 And it came to pass that king Lamoni inquired of his servants,
saying: Where is this man that has such great power?

 9 And they said unto him: Behold, he is feeding thy horses.  Now
the king had commanded his servants, previous to the time of the
watering of their flocks, that they should prepare his horses and
chariots, and conduct him forth to the land of Nephi; for there
had been a great feast appointed at the land of Nephi, by the
father of Lamoni, who was king over all the land.

 10 Now when king Lamoni heard that Ammon was preparing his
horses and his chariots he was more astonished, because of the
faithfulness of Ammon, saying: Surely there has not been any
servant among all my servants that has been so faithful as this
man; for even he doth remember all my commandments to execute
them.

 11 Now I surely know that this is the Great Spirit, and I would
desire him that he come in unto me, but I durst not.

 12 And it came to pass that when Ammon had made ready the horses
and the chariots for the king and his servants, he went in unto
the king, and he saw that the countenance of the king was
changed; therefore he was about to return out of his presence.

 13 And one of the king's servants said unto him, Rabbanah, which
is, being interpreted, powerful or great king, considering their
kings to be powerful; and thus he said unto him: Rabbanah, the
king desireth thee to stay.

 14 Therefore Ammon turned himself unto the king, and said unto
him: What wilt thou that I should do for thee, O king?  And the
king answered him not for the space of an hour, according to
their time, for he knew not what he should say unto him.

 15 And it came to pass that Ammon said unto him again: What
desirest thou of me?  But the king answered him not.

 16 And it came to pass that Ammon, being filled with the Spirit
of God, therefore he perceived the thoughts of the king.  And he
said unto him: Is it because thou hast heard that I defended thy
servants and thy flocks, and slew seven of their brethren with
the sling and with the sword, and smote off the arms of others,
in order to defend thy flocks and thy servants; behold, is it
this that causeth thy marvelings?

 17 I say unto you, what is it, that thy marvelings are so great?

Behold, I am a man, and am thy servant; therefore, whatsoever
thou desirest which is right, that will I do.

 18 Now when the king had heard these words, he marveled again,
for he beheld that Ammon could discern his thoughts; but
notwithstanding this, king Lamoni did open his mouth, and said
unto him: Who art thou?  Art thou that Great Spirit, who knows
all things?

 19 Ammon answered and said unto him: I am not.

 20 And the king said: How knowest thou the thoughts of my heart?

Thou mayest speak boldly, and tell me concerning these things;
and also tell me by what power ye slew and smote off the arms of
my brethren that scattered my flocks--

 21 And now, if thou wilt tell me concerning these things,
whatsoever thou desirest I will give unto thee; and if it were
needed, I would guard thee with my armies; but I know that thou
art more powerful than all they; nevertheless, whatsoever thou
desirest of me I will grant it unto thee.

 22 Now Ammon being wise, yet harmless, he said unto Lamoni: Wilt
thou hearken unto my words, if I tell thee by what power I do
these things?  And this is the thing that I desire of thee.

 23 And the king answered him, and said: Yea, I will believe all
thy words.  And thus he was caught with guile.

 24 And Ammon began to speak unto him with boldness, and said
unto him: Believest thou that there is a God?

 25 And he answered, and said unto him: I do not know what that
meaneth.

 26 And then Ammon said: Believest thou that there is a Great
Spirit?

 27 And he said, Yea.

 28 And Ammon said: This is God.  And Ammon said unto him again:
Believest thou that this Great Spirit, who is God, created all
things which are in heaven and in the earth?

 29 And he said: Yea, I believe that he created all things which
are in the earth; but I do not know the heavens.

 30 And Ammon said unto him: The heavens is a place where God
dwells and all his holy angels.

 31 And king Lamoni said: Is it above the earth?

 32 And Ammon said: Yea, and he looketh down upon all the
children of men; and he knows all the thoughts and intents of the
heart; for by his hand were they all created from the beginning.

 33 And king Lamoni said: I believe all these things which thou
hast spoken.  Art thou sent from God?

 34 Ammon said unto him: I am a man; and man in the beginning was
created after the image of God, and I am called by his Holy
Spirit to teach these things unto this people, that they may be
brought to a knowledge of that which is just and true;

 35 And a portion of that Spirit dwelleth in me, which giveth me
knowledge, and also power according to my faith and desires which
are in God.

 36 Now when Ammon had said these words, he began at the creation
of the world, and also the creation of Adam, and told him all the
things concerning the fall of man, and rehearsed and laid before
him the records and the holy scriptures of the people, which had
been spoken by the prophets, even down to the time that their
father, Lehi, left Jerusalem.

 37 And he also rehearsed unto them (for it was unto the king and
to his servants) all the journeyings of their fathers in the
wilderness, and all their sufferings with hunger and thirst, and
their travail, and so forth.

 38 And he also rehearsed unto them concerning the rebellions of
Laman and Lemuel, and the sons of Ishmael, yea, all their
rebellions did he relate unto them; and he expounded unto them
all the records and scriptures from the time that Lehi left
Jerusalem down to the present time.

 39 But this is not all; for he expounded unto them the plan of
redemption, which was prepared from the foundation of the world;
and he also made known unto them concerning the coming of Christ,
and all the works of the Lord did he make known unto them.

 40 And it came to pass that after he had said all these things,
and expounded them to the king, that the king believed all his
words.

 41 And he began to cry unto the Lord, saying: O Lord, have
mercy; according to thy abundant mercy which thou hast had upon
the people of Nephi, have upon me, and my people.

 42 And now, when he had said this, he fell unto the earth, as if
he were dead.

 43 And it came to pass that his servants took him and carried
him in unto his wife, and laid him upon a bed; and he lay as if
he were dead for the space of two days and two nights; and his
wife, and his sons, and his daughters mourned over him, after the
manner of the Lamanites, greatly lamenting his loss.

Chapter 19

 1 And it came to pass that after two days and two nights they
were about to take his body and lay it in a sepulchre, which they
had made for the purpose of burying their dead.

 2 Now the queen having heard of the fame of Ammon, therefore she
sent and desired that he should come in unto her.

 3 And it came to pass that Ammon did as he was commanded, and
went in unto the queen, and desired to know what she would that
he should do.

 4 And she said unto him: The servants of my husband have made it
known unto me that thou art a prophet of a holy God, and that
thou hast power to do many mighty works in his name;

 5 Therefore, if this is the case, I would that ye should go in
and see my husband, for he has been laid upon his bed for the
space of two days and two nights; and some say that he is not
dead, but others say that he is dead and that he stinketh, and
that he ought to be placed in the sepulchre; but as for myself,
to me he doth not stink.

 6 Now, this was what Ammon desired, for he knew that king Lamoni
was under the power of God; he knew that the dark veil of
unbelief was being cast away from his mind, and the light which
did light up his mind, which was the light of the glory of God,
which was a marvelous light of his goodness--yea, this light had
infused such joy into his soul, the cloud of darkness having been
dispelled, and that the light of everlasting life was lit up in
his soul, yea, he knew that this had overcome his natural frame,
and he was carried away in God--

 7 Therefore, what the queen desired of him was his only desire. 
Therefore, he went in to see the king according as the queen had
desired him; and he saw the king, and he knew that he was not
dead.

 8 And he said unto the queen: He is not dead, but he sleepeth in
God, and on the morrow he shall rise again; therefore bury him
not.

 9 And Ammon said unto her: Believest thou this?  And she said
unto him: I have had no witness save thy word, and the word of
our servants; nevertheless I believe that it shall be according
as thou hast said.

 10 And Ammon said unto her: Blessed art thou because of thy
exceeding faith; I say unto thee, woman, there has not been such
great faith among all the people of the Nephites.

 11 And it came to pass that she watched over the bed of her
husband, from that time even until that time on the morrow which
Ammon had appointed that he should rise.

 12 And it came to pass that he arose, according to the words of
Ammon; and as he arose, he stretched forth his hand unto the
woman, and said: Blessed be the name of God, and blessed art
thou.

 13 For as sure as thou livest, behold, I have seen my Redeemer;
and he shall come forth, and be born of a woman, and he shall
redeem all mankind who believe on his name.  Now, when he had
said these words, his heart was swollen within him, and he sunk
again with joy; and the queen also sunk down, being overpowered
by the Spirit.

 14 Now Ammon seeing the Spirit of the Lord poured out according
to his prayers upon the Lamanites, his brethren, who had been the
cause of so much mourning among the Nephites, or among all the
people of God because of their iniquities and their traditions,
he fell upon his knees, and began to pour out his soul in prayer
and thanksgiving to God for what he had done for his brethren;
and he was also overpowered with joy; and thus they all three had
sunk to the earth.

 15 Now, when the servants of the king had seen that they had
fallen, they also began to cry unto God, for the fear of the Lord
had come upon them also, for it was they who had stood before the
king and testified unto him concerning the great power of Ammon.

 16 And it came to pass that they did call on the name of the
Lord, in their might, even until they had all fallen to the
earth, save it were one of the Lamanitish women, whose name was
Abish, she having been converted unto the Lord for many years, on
account of a remarkable vision of her father--

 17 Thus, having been converted to the Lord, and never having
made it known, therefore, when she saw that all the servants of
Lamoni had fallen to the earth, and also her mistress, the queen,
and the king, and Ammon lay prostrate upon the earth, she knew
that it was the power of God; and supposing that this
opportunity, by making known unto the people what had happened
among them, that by beholding this scene it would cause them to
believe in the power of God, therefore she ran forth from house
to house, making it known unto the people.

 18 And they began to assemble themselves together unto the house
of the king.  And there came a multitude, and to their
astonishment they beheld the king, and the queen, and their
servants prostrate upon the earth, and they all lay there as
though they were dead; and they also saw Ammon, and behold, he
was a Nephite.

 19 And now the people began to murmur among themselves; some
saying that it was a great evil that had come upon them, or upon
the king and his house, because he had suffered that the Nephite
should remain in the land.

 20 But others rebuked them, saying: The king hath brought this
evil upon his house, because he slew his servants who had had
their flocks scattered at the waters of Sebus.

 21 And they were also rebuked by those men who had stood at the
waters of Sebus and scattered the flocks which belonged to the
king, for they were angry with Ammon because of the number which
he had slain of their brethren at the waters of Sebus, while
defending the flocks of the king.

 22 Now, one of them, whose brother had been slain with the sword
of Ammon, being exceedingly angry with Ammon, drew his sword and
went forth that he might let it fall upon Ammon, to slay him; and
as he lifted the sword to smite him, behold, he fell dead.

 23 Now we see that Ammon could not be slain, for the Lord had
said unto Mosiah, his father: I will spare him, and it shall be
unto him according to thy faith--therefore, Mosiah trusted him
unto the Lord.

 24 And it came to pass that when the multitude beheld that the
man had fallen dead, who lifted the sword to slay Ammon, fear
came upon them all, and they durst not put forth their hands to
touch him or any of those who had fallen; and they began to
marvel again among themselves what could be the cause of this
great power, or what all these things could mean.

 25 And it came to pass that there were many among them who said
that Ammon was the Great Spirit, and others said he was sent by
the Great Spirit;

 26 But others rebuked them all, saying that he was a monster,
who had been sent from the Nephites to torment them.

 27 And there were some who said that Ammon was sent by the Great
Spirit to afflict them because of their iniquities; and that it
was the Great Spirit that had always attended the Nephites, who
had ever delivered them out of their hands; and they said that it
was this Great Spirit who had destroyed so many of their
brethren, the Lamanites.

 28 And thus the contention began to be exceedingly sharp among
them.  And while they were thus contending, the woman servant who
had caused the multitude to be gathered together came, and when
she saw the contention which was among the multitude she was
exceedingly sorrowful, even unto tears.

 29 And it came to pass that she went and took the queen by the
hand, that perhaps she might raise her from the ground; and as
soon as she touched her hand she arose and stood upon her feet,
and cried with a loud voice, saying: O blessed Jesus, who has
saved me from an awful hell!  O blessed God, have mercy on this
people!

 30 And when she had said this, she clasped her hands, being
filled with joy, speaking many words which were not understood;
and when she had done this, she took the king, Lamoni, by the
hand, and behold he arose and stood upon his feet.

 31 And he, immediately, seeing the contention among his people,
went forth and began to rebuke them, and to teach them the words
which he had heard from the mouth of Ammon; and as many as heard
his words believed, and were converted unto the Lord.

 32 But there were many among them who would not hear his words;
therefore they went their way.

 33 And it came to pass that when Ammon arose he also
administered unto them, and also did all the servants of Lamoni;
and they did all declare unto the people the selfsame thing--that
their hearts had been changed; that they had no more desire to do
evil.

 34 And behold, many did declare unto the people that they had
seen angels and had conversed with them; and thus they had told
them things of God, and of his righteousness.

 35 And it came to pass that there were many that did believe in
their words; and as many as did believe were baptized; and they
became a righteous people, and they did establish a church among
them.

 36 And thus the work of the Lord did commence among the
Lamanites; thus the Lord did begin to pour out his Spirit upon
them; and we see that his arm is extended to all people who will
repent and believe on his name.

Chapter 20

 1 And it came to pass that when they had established a church in
that land, that king Lamoni desired that Ammon should go with him
to the land of Nephi, that he might show him unto his father.

 2 And the voice of the Lord came to Ammon saying: Thou shalt not
go up to the land of Nephi, for behold, the king will seek thy
life; but thou shalt go to the land of Middoni; for behold, thy
brother Aaron, and also Muloki and Ammah are in prison.

 3 Now it came to pass that when Ammon had heard this, he said
unto Lamoni: Behold, my brother and brethren are in prison at
Middoni, and I go that I may deliver them.

 4 Now Lamoni said unto Ammon: I know, in the strength of the
Lord thou canst do all things.  But behold, I will go with thee
to the land of Middoni; for the king of the land of Middoni,
whose name is Antiomno, is a friend unto me; therefore I go to
the land of Middoni, that I may flatter the king of the land, and
he will cast thy brethren out of prison.  Now Lamoni said unto
him: Who told thee that thy brethren were in prison?

 5 And Ammon said unto him: No one hath told me, save it be God;
and he said unto me--Go and deliver thy brethren, for they are in
prison in the land of Middoni.

 6 Now when Lamoni had heard this he caused that his servants
should make ready his horses and his chariots.

 7 And he said unto Ammon: Come, I will go with thee down to the
land of Middoni, and there I will plead with the king that he
will cast thy brethren out of prison.

 8 And it came to pass that as Ammon and Lamoni were journeying
thither, they met the father of Lamoni, who was king over all the
land.

 9 And behold, the father of Lamoni said unto him: Why did ye not
come to the feast on that great day when I made a feast unto my
sons, and unto my people?

 10 And he also said: Whither art thou going with this Nephite,
who is one of the children of a liar?

 11 And it came to pass that Lamoni rehearsed unto him whither he
was going, for he feared to offend him.

 12 And he also told him all the cause of his tarrying in his own
kingdom, that he did not go unto his father to the feast which he
had prepared.

 13 And now when Lamoni had rehearsed unto him all these things,
behold, to his astonishment, his father was angry with him, and
said: Lamoni, thou art going to deliver these Nephites, who are
sons of a liar.  Behold, he robbed our fathers; and now his
children are also come amongst us that they may, by their cunning
and their lyings, deceive us, that they again may rob us of our
property.

 14 Now the father of Lamoni commanded him that he should slay
Ammon with the sword.  And he also commanded him that he should
not go to the land of Middoni, but that he should return with him
to the land of Ishmael.

 15 But Lamoni said unto him: I will not slay Ammon, neither will
I return to the land of Ishmael, but I go to the land of Middoni
that I may release the brethren of Ammon, for I know that they
are just men and holy prophets of the true God.

 16 Now when his father had heard these words, he was angry with
him, and he drew his sword that he might smite him to the earth.

 17 But Ammon stood forth and said unto him: Behold, thou shalt
not slay thy son; nevertheless, it were better that he should
fall than thee, for behold, he has repented of his sins; but if
thou shouldst fall at this time, in thine anger, thy soul could
not be saved.

 18 And again, it is expedient that thou shouldst forbear; for if
thou shouldst slay thy son, he being an innocent man, his blood
would cry from the ground to the Lord his God, for vengeance to
come upon thee; and perhaps thou wouldst lose thy soul.

 19 Now when Ammon had said these words unto him, he answered
him, saying: I know that if I should slay my son, that I should
shed innocent blood; for it is thou that hast sought to destroy
him.

 20 And he stretched forth his hand to slay Ammon.  But Ammon
withstood his blows, and also smote his arm that he could not use
it.

 21 Now when the king saw that Ammon could slay him, he began to
plead with Ammon that he would spare his life.

 22 But Ammon raised his sword, and said unto him: Behold, I will
smite thee except thou wilt grant unto me that my brethren may be
cast out of prison.

 23 Now the king, fearing he should lose his life, said: If thou
wilt spare me I will grant unto thee whatsoever thou wilt ask,
even to half of the kingdom.

 24 Now when Ammon saw that he had wrought upon the old king
according to his desire, he said unto him: If thou wilt grant
that my brethren may be cast out of prison, and also that Lamoni
may retain his kingdom, and that ye be not displeased with him,
but grant that he may do according to his own desires in
whatsoever thing he thinketh, then will I spare thee; otherwise I
will smite thee to the earth.

 25 Now when Ammon had said these words, the king began to
rejoice because of his life.

 26 And when he saw that Ammon had no desire to destroy him, and
when he also saw the great love he had for his son Lamoni, he was
astonished exceedingly, and said: Because this is all that thou
hast desired, that I would release thy brethren, and suffer that
my son Lamoni should retain his kingdom, behold, I will grant
unto you that my son may retain his kingdom from this time and
forever; and I will govern him no more--

 27 And I will also grant unto thee that thy brethren may be cast
out of prison, and thou and thy brethren may come unto me, in my
kingdom; for I shall greatly desire to see thee.  For the king
was greatly astonished at the words which he had spoken, and also
at the words which had been spoken by his son Lamoni, therefore
he was desirous to learn them.

 28 And it came to pass that Ammon and Lamoni proceeded on their
journey towards the land of Middoni.  And Lamoni found favor in
the eyes of the king of the land; therefore the brethren of Ammon
were brought forth out of prison.

 29 And when Ammon did meet them he was exceedingly sorrowful,
for behold they were naked, and their skins were worn exceedingly
because of being bound with strong cords.  And they also had
suffered hunger, thirst, and all kinds of afflictions;
nevertheless they were patient in all their sufferings.

 30 And, as it happened, it was their lot to have fallen into the
hands of a more hardened and a more stiffnecked people; therefore
they would not hearken unto their words, and they had cast them
out, and had smitten them, and had driven them from house to
house, and from place to place, even until they had arrived in
the land of Middoni; and there they were taken and cast into
prison, and bound with strong cords, and kept in prison for many
days, and were delivered by Lamoni and Ammon.

Chapter 21

 1 Now when Ammon and his brethren separated themselves in the
borders of the land of the Lamanites, behold Aaron took his
journey towards the land which was called by the Lamanites,
Jerusalem, calling it after the land of their fathers' nativity;
and it was away joining the borders of Mormon.

 2 Now the Lamanites and the Amalekites and the people of Amulon
had built a great city, which was called Jerusalem.

 3 Now the Lamanites of themselves were sufficiently hardened,
but the Amalekites and the Amulonites were still harder;
therefore they did cause the Lamanites that they should harden
their hearts, that they should wax strong in wickedness and their
abominations.

 4 And it came to pass that Aaron came to the city of Jerusalem,
and first began to preach to the Amalekites.  And he began to
preach to them in their synagogues, for they had built synagogues
after the order of the Nehors; for many of the Amalekites and the
Amulonites were after the order of the Nehors

 5 Therefore, as Aaron entered into one of their synagogues to
preach unto the people, and as he was speaking unto them, behold
there arose an Amalekite and began to contend with him, saying:
What is that thou hast testified?  Hast thou seen an angel?  Why
do not angels appear unto us?  Behold are not this people as good
as thy people?

 6 Thou also sayest, except we repent we shall perish.  How
knowest thou the thought and intent of our hearts?  How knowest
thou that we have cause to repent?  How knowest thou that we are
not a righteous people?  Behold, we have built sanctuaries, and
we do assemble ourselves together to worship God.  We do believe
that God will save all men.

 7 Now Aaron said unto him: Believest thou that the Son of God
shall come to redeem mankind from their sins?

 8 And the man said unto him: We do not believe that thou knowest
any such thing.  We do not believe in these foolish traditions. 
We do not believe that thou knowest of things to come, neither do
we believe that thy fathers and also that our fathers did know
concerning the things which they spake, of that which is to come.

 9 Now Aaron began to open the scriptures unto them concerning
the coming of Christ, and also concerning the resurrection of the
dead, and that there could be no redemption for mankind save it
were through the death and sufferings of Christ, and the
atonement of his blood.

 10 And it came to pass as he began to expound these things unto
them they were angry with him, and began to mock him; and they
would not hear the words which he spake.

 11 Therefore, when he saw that they would not hear his words, he
departed out of their synagogue, and came over to a village which
was called Ani-Anti, and there he found Muloki preaching the word
unto them; and also Ammah and his brethren.  And they contended
with many about the word.

 12 And it came to pass that they saw that the people would
harden their hearts, therefore they departed and came over into
the land of Middoni.  And they did preach the word unto many, and
few believed on the words which they taught.

 13 Nevertheless, Aaron and a certain number of his brethren were
taken and cast into prison, and the remainder of them fled out of
the land of Middoni unto the regions round about.

 14 And those who were cast into prison suffered many things, and
they were delivered by the hand of Lamoni and Ammon, and they
were fed and clothed.

 15 And they went forth again to declare the word, and thus they
were delivered for the first time out of prison; and thus they
had suffered.

 16 And they went forth whithersoever they were led by the Spirit
of the Lord, preaching the word of God in every synagogue of the
Amalekites, or in every assembly of the Lamanites where they
could be admitted.

 17 And it came to pass that the Lord began to bless them,
insomuch that they brought many to the knowledge of the truth;
yea, they did convince many of their sins, and of the traditions
of their fathers, which were not correct.

 18 And it came to pass that Ammon and Lamoni returned from the
land of Middoni to the land of Ishmael, which was the land of
their inheritance.

 19 And king Lamoni would not suffer that Ammon should serve him,
or be his servant.

 20 But he caused that there should be synagogues built in the
land of Ishmael; and he caused that his people, or the people who
were under his reign, should assemble themselves together.

 21 And he did rejoice over them, and he did teach them many
things.  And he did also declare unto them that they were a
people who were under him, and that they were a free people, that
they were free from the oppressions of the king, his father; for
that his father had granted unto him that he might reign over the
people who were in the land of Ishmael, and in all the land round
about.

 22 And he also declared unto them that they might have the
liberty of worshiping the Lord their God according to their
desires, in whatsoever place they were in, if it were in the land
which was under the reign of king Lamoni.

 23 And Ammon did preach unto the people of king Lamoni; and it
came to pass that he did teach them all things concerning things
pertaining to righteousness.  And he did exhort them daily, with
all diligence; and they gave heed unto his word, and they were
zealous for keeping the commandments of God.

Chapter 22

 1 Now, as Ammon was thus teaching the people of Lamoni
continually, we will return to the account of Aaron and his
brethren; for after he departed from the land of Middoni he was
led by the Spirit to the land of Nephi, even to the house of the
king which was over all the land save it were the land of
Ishmael; and he was the father of Lamoni.

 2 And it came to pass that he went in unto him into the king's
palace, with his brethren, and bowed himself before the king, and
said unto him: Behold, O king, we are the brethren of Ammon, whom
thou hast delivered out of prison.

 3 And now, O king, if thou wilt spare our lives, we will be thy
servants.  And the king said unto them: Arise, for I will grant
unto you your lives, and I will not suffer that ye shall be my
servants; but I will insist that ye shall administer unto me; for
I have been somewhat troubled in mind because of the generosity
and the greatness of the words of thy brother Ammon; and I desire
to know the cause why he has not come up out of Middoni with
thee.

 4 And Aaron said unto the king: Behold, the Spirit of the Lord
has called him another way; he has gone to the land of Ishmael,
to teach the people of Lamoni.

 5 Now the king said unto them: What is this that ye have said
concerning the Spirit of the Lord?  Behold, this is the thing
which doth trouble me.

 6 And also, what is this that Ammon said--If ye will repent ye
shall be saved, and if ye will not repent, ye shall be cast off
at the last day?

 7 And Aaron answered him and said unto him: Believest thou that
there is a God?  And the king said: I know that the Amalekites
say that there is a God, and I have granted unto them that they
should build sanctuaries, that they may assemble themselves
together to worship him.  And if now thou sayest there is a God,
behold I will believe.

 8 And now when Aaron heard this, his heart began to rejoice, and
he said: Behold, assuredly as thou livest, O king, there is a
God.

 9 And the king said: Is God that Great Spirit that brought our
fathers out of the land of Jerusalem?

 10 And Aaron said unto him: Yea, he is that Great Spirit, and he
created all things both in heaven and in earth.  Believest thou
this?

 11 And he said: Yea, I believe that the Great Spirit created all
things, and I desire that ye should tell me concerning all these
things, and I will believe thy words.

 12 And it came to pass that when Aaron saw that the king would
believe his words, he began from the creation of Adam, reading
the scriptures unto the king--how God created man after his own
image, and that God gave him commandments, and that because of
transgression, man had fallen.

 13 And Aaron did expound unto him the scriptures from the
creation of Adam, laying the fall of man before him, and their
carnal state and also the plan of redemption, which was prepared
from the foundation of the world, through Christ, for all
whosoever would believe on his name.

 14 And since man had fallen he could not merit anything of
himself; but the sufferings and death of Christ atone for their
sins, through faith and repentance, and so forth; and that he
breaketh the bands of death, that the grave shall have no
victory, and that the sting of death should be swallowed up in
the hopes of glory; and Aaron did expound all these things unto
the king.

 15 And it came to pass that after Aaron had expounded these
things unto him, the king said: What shall I do that I may have
this eternal life of which thou hast spoken?  Yea, what shall I
do that I may be born of God, having this wicked spirit rooted
out of my breast, and receive his Spirit, that I may be filled
with joy, that I may not be cast off at the last day?  Behold,
said he, I will give up all that I possess, yea, I will forsake
my kingdom, that I may receive this great joy.

 16 But Aaron said unto him: If thou desirest this thing, if thou
wilt bow down before God, yea, if thou wilt repent of all thy
sins, and will bow down before God, and call on his name in
faith, believing that ye shall receive, then shalt thou receive
the hope which thou desirest.

 17 And it came to pass that when Aaron had said these words, the
king did bow down before the Lord, upon his knees; yea, even he
did prostrate himself upon the earth, and cried mightily, saying:

 18 O God, Aaron hath told me that there is a God; and if there
is a God, and if thou art God, wilt thou make thyself known unto
me, and I will give away all my sins to know thee, and that I may
be raised from the dead, and be saved at the last day.  And now
when the king had said these words, he was struck as if he were
dead.

 19 And it came to pass that his servants ran and told the queen
all that had happened unto the king.  And she came in unto the
king; and when she saw him lay as if he were dead, and also Aaron
and his brethren standing as though they had been the cause of
his fall, she was angry with them, and commanded that her
servants, or the servants of the king, should take them and slay
them.

 20 Now the servants had seen the cause of the king's fall,
therefore they durst not lay their hands on Aaron and his
brethren; and they pled with the queen saying: Why commandest
thou that we should slay these men, when behold one of them is
mightier than us all?  Therefore we shall fall before them.

 21 Now when the queen saw the fear of the servants she also
began to fear exceedingly, lest there should some evil come upon
her.  And she commanded her servants that they should go and call
the people, that they might slay Aaron and his brethren.

 22 Now when Aaron saw the determination of the queen, he, also
knowing the hardness of the hearts of the people, feared lest
that a multitude should assemble themselves together, and there
should be a great contention and a disturbance among them;
therefore he put forth his hand and raised the king from the
earth, and said unto him: Stand.  And he stood upon his feet,
receiving his strength.

 23 Now this was done in the presence of the queen and many of
the servants.  And when they saw it they greatly marveled, and
began to fear.  And the king stood forth, and began to minister
unto them.  And he did minister unto them, insomuch that his
whole household were converted unto the Lord.

 24 Now there was a multitude gathered together because of the
commandment of the queen, and there began to be great murmurings
among them because of Aaron and his brethren.

 25 But the king stood forth among them and administered unto
them.  And they were pacified towards Aaron and those who were
with him.

 26 And it came to pass that when the king saw that the people
were pacified, he caused that Aaron and his brethren should stand
forth in the midst of the multitude, and that they should preach
the word unto them.

 27 And it came to pass that the king sent a proclamation
throughout all the land, amongst all his people who were in all
his land, who were in all the regions round about, which was
bordering even to the sea, on the east and on the west, and which
was divided from the land of Zarahemla by a narrow strip of
wilderness, which ran from the sea east even to the sea west, and
round about on the borders of the seashore, and the borders of
the wilderness which was on the north by the land of Zarahemla,
through the borders of Manti, by the head of the river Sidon,
running from the east towards the west--and thus were the
Lamanites and the Nephites divided.

 28 Now, the more idle part of the Lamanites lived in the
wilderness, and dwelt in tents; and they were spread through the
wilderness on the west, in the land of Nephi; yea, and also on
the west of the land of Zarahemla, in the borders by the
seashore, and on the west in the land of Nephi, in the place of
their fathers' first inheritance, and thus bordering along by the
seashore.

 29 And also there were many Lamanites on the east by the
seashore, whither the Nephites had driven them.  And thus the
Nephites were nearly surrounded by the Lamanites; nevertheless
the Nephites had taken possession of all the northern parts of
the land bordering on the wilderness, at the head of the river
Sidon, from the east to the west, round about on the wilderness
side; on the north, even until they came to the land which they
called Bountiful.

 30 And it bordered upon the land which they called Desolation,
it being so far northward that it came into the land which had
been peopled and been destroyed, of whose bones we have spoken,
which was discovered by the people of Zarahemla, it being the
place of their first landing.

 31 And they came from there up into the south wilderness.  Thus
the land on the northward was called Desolation, and the land on
the southward was called Bountiful, it being the wilderness which
is filled with all manner of wild animals of every kind, a part
of which had come from the land northward for food.

 32 And now, it was only the distance of a day and a half's
journey for a Nephite, on the line Bountiful and the land
Desolation, from the east to the west sea; and thus the land of
Nephi and the land of Zarahemla were nearly surrounded by water,
there being a small neck of land between the land northward and
the land southward.

 33 And it came to pass that the Nephites had inhabited the land
Bountiful, even from the east unto the west sea, and thus the
Nephites in their wisdom, with their guards and their armies, had
hemmed in the Lamanites on the south, that thereby they should
have no more possession on the north, that they might not overrun
the land northward.

 34 Therefore the Lamanites could have no more possessions only
in the land of Nephi, and the wilderness round about.  Now this
was wisdom in the Nephites--as the Lamanites were an enemy to
them, they would not suffer their afflictions on every hand, and
also that they might have a country whither they might flee,
according to their desires.

 35 And now I, after having said this, return again to the
account of Ammon and Aaron, Omner and Himni, and their brethren.

Chapter 23

 1 Behold, now it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites
sent a proclamation among all his people, that they should not
lay their hands on Ammon, or Aaron, or Omner, or Himni, nor
either of their brethren who should go forth preaching the word
of God, in whatsoever place they should be, in any part of their
land.

 2 Yea, he sent a decree among them, that they should not lay
their hands on them to bind them, or to cast them into prison;
neither should they spit upon them, nor smite them, nor cast them
out of their synagogues, nor scourge them; neither should they
cast stones at them, but that they should have free access to
their houses, and also their temples, and their sanctuaries.

 3 And thus they might go forth and preach the word according to
their desires, for the king had been converted unto the Lord, and
all his household; therefore he sent his proclamation throughout
the land unto his people, that the word of God might have no
obstruction, but that it might go forth throughout all the land,
that his people might be convinced concerning the wicked
traditions of their fathers, and that they might be convinced
that they were all brethren, and that they ought not to murder,
nor to plunder, nor to steal, nor to commit adultery, nor to
commit any manner of wickedness.

 4 And now it came to pass that when the king had sent forth this
proclamation, that Aaron and his brethren went forth from city to
city, and from one house of worship to another, establishing
churches, and consecrating priests and teachers throughout the
land among the Lamanites, to preach and to teach the word of God
among them; and thus they began to have great success.

 5 And thousands were brought to the knowledge of the Lord, yea,
thousands were brought to believe in the traditions of the
Nephites; and they were taught the records and prophecies which
were handed down even to the present time.

 6 And as sure as the Lord liveth, so sure as many as believed,
or as many as were brought to the knowledge of the truth, through
the preaching of Ammon and his brethren, according to the spirit
of revelation and of prophecy, and the power of God working
miracles in them--yea, I say unto you, as the Lord liveth, as
many of the Lamanites as believed in their preaching, and were
converted unto the Lord, never did fall away.

 7 For they became a righteous people; they did lay down the
weapons of their rebellion, that they did not fight against God
any more, neither against any of their brethren.

 8 Now, these are they who were converted unto the Lord:

 9 The people of the Lamanites who were in the land of Ishmael;

 10 And also of the people of the Lamanites who were in the land
of Middoni;

 11 And also of the people of the Lamanites who were in the city
of Nephi;

 12 And also of the people of the Lamanites who were in the land
of Shilom, and who were in the land of Shemlon, and in the city
of Lemuel, and in the city of Shimnilom.

 13 And these are the names of the cities of the Lamanites which
were converted unto the Lord; and these are they that laid down
the weapons of their rebellion, yea, all their weapons of war;
and they were all Lamanites.

 14 And the Amalekites were not converted, save only one; neither
were any of the Amulonites; but they did harden their hearts, and
also the hearts of the Lamanites in that part of the land
wheresoever they dwelt, yea, and all their villages and all their
cities.

 15 Therefore, we have named all the cities of the Lamanites in
which they did repent and come to the knowledge of the truth, and
were converted.

 16 And now it came to pass that the king and those who were
converted were desirous that they might have a name, that thereby
they might be distinguished from their brethren; therefore the
king consulted with Aaron and many of their priests, concerning
the name that they should take upon them, that they might be
distinguished.

 17 And it came to pass that they called their names
Anti-Nephi-Lehies; and they were called by this name and were no
more called Lamanites.

 18 And they began to be a very industrious people; yea, and they
were friendly with the Nephites; therefore, they did open a
correspondence with them, and the curse of God did no more follow
them.

Chapter 24

 1 And it came to pass that the Amalekites and the Amulonites and
the Lamanites who were in the land of Amulon, and also in the
land of Helam, and who were in the land of Jerusalem, and in
fine, in all the land round about, who had not been converted and
had not taken upon them the name of Anti-Nephi-Lehi, were stirred
up by the Amalekites and by the Amulonites to anger against their
brethren.

 2 And their hatred became exceedingly sore against them, even
insomuch that they began to rebel against their king, insomuch
that they would not that he should be their king; therefore, they
took up arms against the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi.

 3 Now the king conferred the kingdom upon his son, and he called
his name Anti-Nephi-Lehi.

 4 And the king died in that selfsame year that the Lamanites
began to make preparations for war against the people of God.

 5 Now when Ammon and his brethren and all those who had come up
with him saw the preparations of the Lamanites to destroy their
brethren, they came forth to the land of Midian, and there Ammon
met all his brethren; and from thence they came to the land of
Ishmael that they might hold a council with Lamoni and also with
his brother Anti-Nephi-Lehi, what they should do to defend
themselves against the Lamanites.

 6 Now there was not one soul among all the people who had been
converted unto the Lord that would take up arms against their
brethren; nay, they would not even make any preparations for war;
yea, and also their king commanded them that they should not.

 7 Now, these are the words which he said unto the people
concerning the matter: I thank my God, my beloved people, that
our great God has in goodness sent these our brethren, the
Nephites, unto us to preach unto us, and to convince us of the
traditions of our wicked fathers.

 8 And behold, I thank my great God that he has given us a
portion of his Spirit to soften our hearts, that we have opened a
correspondence with these brethren, the Nephites.

 9 And behold, I also thank my God, that by opening this
correspondence we have been convinced of our sins, and of the
many murders which we have committed.

 10 And I also thank my God, yea, my great God, that he hath
granted unto us that we might repent of these things, and also
that he hath forgiven us of those our many sins and murders which
we have committed, and taken away the guilt from our hearts,
through the merits of his Son.

 11 And now behold, my brethren, since it has been all that we
could do, (as we were the most lost of all mankind) to repent of
all our sins and the many murders which we have committed, and to
get God to take them away from our hearts, for it was all we
could do to repent sufficiently before God that he would take
away our stain--

 12 Now, my best beloved brethren, since God hath taken away our
stains, and our swords have become bright, then let us stain our
swords no more with the blood of our brethren.

 13 Behold, I say unto you, Nay, let us retain our swords that
they be not stained with the blood of our brethren; for perhaps,
if we should stain our swords again they can no more be washed
bright through the blood of the Son of our great God, which shall
be shed for the atonement of our sins.

 14 And the great God has had mercy on us, and made these things
known unto us that we might not perish; yea, and he has made
these things known unto us beforehand, because he loveth our
souls as well as he loveth our children; therefore, in his mercy
he doth visit us by his angels, that the plan of salvation might
be made known unto us as well as unto future generations.

 15 Oh, how merciful is our God!  And now behold, since it has
been as much as we could do to get our stains taken away from us,
and our swords are made bright, let us hide them away that they
may be kept bright, as a testimony to our God at the last day, or
at the day that we shall be brought to stand before him to be
judged, that we have not stained our swords in the blood of our
brethren since he imparted his word unto us and has made us clean
thereby.

 16 And now, my brethren, if our brethren seek to destroy us,
behold, we will hide away our swords, yea, even we will bury them
deep in the earth, that they may be kept bright, as a testimony
that we have never used them, at the last day; and if our
brethren destroy us, behold, we shall go to our God and shall be
saved.

 17 And now it came to pass that when the king had made an end of
these sayings, and all the people were assembled together, they
took their swords, and all the weapons which were used for the
shedding of man's blood, and they did bury them up deep in the
earth.
 18 And this they did, it being in their view a testimony to God,
and also to men, that they never would use weapons again for the
shedding of man's blood; and this they did, vouching and
covenanting with God, that rather than shed the blood of their
brethren they would give up their own lives; and rather than take
away from a brother they would give unto him; and rather than
spend their days in idleness they would labor abundantly with
their hands.

 19 And thus we see that, when these Lamanites were brought to
believe and to know the truth, they were firm, and would suffer
even unto death rather than commit sin; and thus we see that they
buried their weapons of peace, or they buried the weapons of war,
for peace.

 20 And it came to pass that their brethren, the Lamanites, made
preparations for war, and came up to the land of Nephi for the
purpose of destroying the king, and to place another in his
stead, and also of destroying the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi out
of the land.

 21 Now when the people saw that they were coming against them
they went out to meet them, and prostrated themselves before them
to the earth, and began to call on the name of the Lord; and thus
they were in this attitude when the Lamanites began to fall upon
them, and began to slay them with the sword.

 22 And thus without meeting any resistance, they did slay a
thousand and five of them; and we know that they are blessed, for
they have gone to dwell with their God.

 23 Now when the Lamanites saw that their brethren would not flee
from the sword, neither would they turn aside to the right hand
or to the left, but that they would lie down and perish, and
praised God even in the very act of perishing under the sword--

 24 Now when the Lamanites saw this they did forbear from slaying
them; and there were many whose hearts had swollen in them for
those of their brethren who had fallen under the sword, for they
repented of the things which they had done.

 25 And it came to pass that they threw down their weapons of
war, and they would not take them again, for they were stung for
the murders which they had committed; and they came down even as
their brethren, relying upon the mercies of those whose arms were
lifted to slay them.

 26 And it came to pass that the people of God were joined that
day by more than the number who had been slain; and those who had
been slain were righteous people, therefore we have no reason to
doubt but what they were saved.

 27 And there was not a wicked man slain among them; but there
were more than a thousand brought to the knowledge of the truth;
thus we see that the Lord worketh in many ways to the salvation
of his people.

 28 Now the greatest number of those of the Lamanites who slew so
many of their brethren were Amalekites and Amulonites, the
greatest number of whom were after the order of the Nehors.

 29 Now, among those who joined the people of the Lord, there
were none who were Amalekites or Amulonites, or who were of the
order of Nehor, but they were actual descendants of Laman and
Lemuel.

 30 And thus we can plainly discern, that after a people have
been once enlightened by the Spirit of God, and have had great
knowledge of things pertaining to righteousness, and then have
fallen away into sin and transgression, they become more
hardened, and thus their state becomes worse than though they had
never known these things.

Chapter 25

 1 And behold, now it came to pass that those Lamanites were more
angry because they had slain their brethren; therefore they swore
vengeance upon the Nephites; and they did no more attempt to slay
the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi at that time.

 2 But they took their armies and went over into the borders of
the land of Zarahemla, and fell upon the people who were in the
land of Ammonihah, and destroyed them.

 3 And after that, they had many battles with the Nephites, in
the which they were driven and slain.

 4 And among the Lamanites who were slain were almost all the
seed of Amulon and his brethren, who were the priests of Noah,
and they were slain by the hands of the Nephites;

 5 And the remainder, having fled into the east wilderness, and
having usurped the power and authority over the Lamanites, caused
that many of the Lamanites should perish by fire because of their
belief--

 6 For many of them, after having suffered much loss and so many
afflictions, began to be stirred up in remembrance of the words
which Aaron and his brethren had preached to them in their land;
therefore they began to disbelieve the traditions of their
fathers, and to believe in the Lord, and that he gave great power
unto the Nephites; and thus there were many of them converted in
the wilderness.

 7 And it came to pass that those rulers who were the remnant of
the children of Amulon caused that they should be put to death,
yea, all those that believed in these things.

 8 Now this martyrdom caused that many of their brethren should
be stirred up to anger; and there began to be contention in the
wilderness; and the Lamanites began to hunt the seed of Amulon
and his brethren and began to slay them; and they fled into the
east wilderness.

 9 And behold they are hunted at this day by the Lamanites.  Thus
the words of Abinadi were brought to pass, which he said
concerning the seed of the priests who caused that he should
suffer death by fire.

 10 For he said unto them: What ye shall do unto me shall be a
type of things to come.

 11 And now Abinadi was the first that suffered death by fire
because of his belief in God; now this is what he meant, that
many should suffer death by fire, according as he had suffered.

 12 And he said unto the priests of Noah that their seed should
cause many to be put to death, in the like manner as he was, and
that they should be scattered abroad and slain, even as a sheep
having no shepherd is driven and slain by wild beasts; and now
behold, these words were verified, for they were driven by the
Lamanites, and they were hunted, and they were smitten.

 13 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that they
could not overpower the Nephites they returned again to their own
land; and many of them came over to dwell in the land of Ishmael
and the land of Nephi, and did join themselves to the people of
God, who were the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi.

 14 And they did also bury their weapons of war, according as
their brethren had, and they began to be a righteous people; and
they did walk in the ways of the Lord, and did observe to keep
his commandments and his statutes.

 15 Yea, and they did keep the law of Moses; for it was expedient
that they should keep the law of Moses as yet, for it was not all
fulfilled.  But notwithstanding the law of Moses, they did look
forward to the coming of Christ, considering that the law of
Moses was a type of his coming, and believing that they must keep
those outward performances until the time that he should be
revealed unto them.

 16 Now they did not suppose that salvation came by the law of
Moses; but the law of Moses did serve to strengthen their faith
in Christ; and thus they did retain a hope through faith, unto
eternal salvation, relying upon the spirit of prophecy, which
spake of those things to come.

 17 And now behold, Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner, and Himni, and
their brethren did rejoice exceedingly, for the success which
they had had among the Lamanites, seeing that the Lord had
granted unto them according to their prayers, and that he had
also verified his word unto them in every particular.

Chapter 26

 1 And now, these are the words of Ammon to his brethren, which
say thus: My brothers and my brethren, behold I say unto you, how
great reason have we to rejoice; for could we have supposed when
we started from the land of Zarahemla that God would have granted
unto us such great blessings?

 2 And now, I ask, what great blessings has he bestowed upon us? 
Can ye tell?

 3 Behold, I answer for you; for our brethren, the Lamanites,
were in darkness, yea, even in the darkest abyss, but behold, how
many of them are brought to behold the marvelous light of God! 
And this is the blessing which hath been bestowed upon us, that
we have been made instruments in the hands of God to bring about
this great work.

 4 Behold, thousands of them do rejoice, and have been brought
into the fold of God.

 5 Behold, the field was ripe, and blessed are ye, for ye did
thrust in the sickle, and did reap with your might, yea, all the
day long did ye labor; and behold the number of your sheaves! 
And they shall be gathered into the garners, that they are not
wasted.

 6 Yea, they shall not be beaten down by the storm at the last
day; yea, neither shall they be harrowed up by the whirlwinds;
but when the storm cometh they shall be gathered together in
their place, that the storm cannot penetrate to them; yea,
neither shall they be driven with fierce winds whithersoever the
enemy listeth to carry them.

 7 But behold, they are in the hands of the Lord of the harvest,
and they are his; and he will raise them up at the last day.

 8 Blessed be the name of our God; let us sing to his praise,
yea, let us give thanks to his holy name, for he doth work
righteousness forever.

 9 For if we had not come up out of the land of Zarahemla, these
our dearly beloved brethren, who have so dearly beloved us, would
still have been racked with hatred against us, yea, and they
would also have been strangers to God.

 10 And it came to pass that when Ammon had said these words, his
brother Aaron rebuked him, saying: Ammon, I fear that thy joy
doth carry thee away unto boasting.

 11 But Ammon said unto him: I do not boast in my own strength,
nor in my own wisdom; but behold, my joy is full, yea, my heart
is brim with joy, and I will rejoice in my God.

 12 Yea, I know that I am nothing; as to my strength I am weak;
therefore I will not boast of myself, but I will boast of my God,
for in his strength I can do all things; yea, behold, many mighty
miracles we have wrought in this land, for which we will praise
his name forever.

 13 Behold, how many thousands of our brethren has he loosed from
the pains of hell; and they are brought to sing redeeming love,
and this because of the power of his word which is in us,
therefore have we not great reason to rejoice?

 14 Yea, we have reason to praise him forever, for he is the Most
High God, and has loosed our brethren from the chains of hell.

 15 Yea, they were encircled about with everlasting darkness and
destruction; but behold, he has brought them into his everlasting
light, yea, into everlasting salvation; and they are encircled
about with the matchless bounty of his love; yea, and we have
been instruments in his hands of doing this great and marvelous
work.

 16 Therefore, let us glory, yea, we will glory in the Lord; yea,
we will rejoice, for our joy is full; yea, we will praise our God
forever.  Behold, who can glory too much in the Lord?  Yea, who
can say too much of his great power, and of his mercy, and of his
long-suffering towards the children of men?  Behold, I say unto
you, I cannot say the smallest part which I feel.

 17 Who could have supposed that our God would have been so
merciful as to have snatched us from our awful, sinful, and
polluted state?

 18 Behold, we went forth even in wrath, with mighty threatenings
to destroy his church.

 19 Oh then, why did he not consign us to an awful destruction,
yea, why did he not let the sword of his justice fall upon us,
and doom us to eternal despair?

 20 Oh, my soul, almost as it were, fleeth at the thought. 
Behold, he did not exercise his justice upon us, but in his great
mercy hath brought us over that everlasting gulf of death and
misery, even to the salvation of our souls.

 21 And now behold, my brethren, what natural man is there that
knoweth these things?  I say unto you, there is none that knoweth
these things, save it be the penitent.

 22 Yea, he that repenteth and exerciseth faith, and bringeth
forth good works, and prayeth continually without ceasing--unto
such it is given to know the mysteries of God; yea, unto such it
shall be given to reveal things which never have been revealed;
yea, and it shall be given unto such to bring thousands of souls
to repentance, even as it has been given unto us to bring these
our brethren to repentance.

 23 Now do ye remember, my brethren, that we said unto our
brethren in the land of Zarahemla, we go up to the land of Nephi,
to preach unto our brethren, the Lamanites, and they laughed us
to scorn?

 24 For they said unto us: Do ye suppose that ye can bring the
Lamanites to the knowledge of the truth?  Do ye suppose that ye
can convince the Lamanites of the incorrectness of the traditions
of their fathers, as stiffnecked a people as they are; whose
hearts delight in the shedding of blood; whose days have been
spent in the grossest iniquity; whose ways have been the ways of
a transgressor from the beginning?  Now my brethren, ye remember
that this was their language.

 25 And moreover they did say: Let us take up arms against them,
that we destroy them and their iniquity out of the land, lest
they overrun us and destroy us.

 26 But behold, my beloved brethren, we came into the wilderness
not with the intent to destroy our brethren, but with the intent
that perhaps we might save some few of their souls.

 27 Now when our hearts were depressed, and we were about to turn
back, behold, the Lord comforted us, and said: Go amongst thy
brethren, the Lamanites, and bear with patience thine
afflictions, and I will give unto you success.

 28 And now behold, we have come, and been forth amongst them;
and we have been patient in our sufferings, and we have suffered
every privation; yea, we have traveled from house to house,
relying upon the mercies of the world--not upon the mercies of
the world alone but upon the mercies of God.

 29 And we have entered into their houses and taught them, and we
have taught them in their streets; yea, and we have taught them
upon their hills; and we have also entered into their temples and
their synagogues and taught them; and we have been cast out, and
mocked, and spit upon, and smote upon our cheeks; and we have
been stoned, and taken and bound with strong cords, and cast into
prison; and through the power and wisdom of God we have been
delivered again.

 30 And we have suffered all manner of afflictions, and all this,
that perhaps we might be the means of saving some soul; and we
supposed that our joy would be full if perhaps we could be the
means of saving some.

 31 Now behold, we can look forth and see the fruits of our
labors; and are they few?  I say unto you, Nay, they are many;
yea, and we can witness of their sincerity, because of their love
towards their brethren and also towards us.

 32 For behold, they had rather sacrifice their lives than even
to take the life of their enemy; and they have buried their
weapons of war deep in the earth, because of their love towards
their brethren.

 33 And now behold I say unto you, has there been so great love
in all the land?  Behold, I say unto you, Nay, there has not,
even among the Nephites.

 34 For behold, they would take up arms against their brethren;
they would not suffer themselves to be slain.  But behold how
many of these have laid down their lives; and we know that they
have gone to their God, because of their love and of their hatred
to sin.

 35 Now have we not reason to rejoice?  Yea, I say unto you,
there never were men that had so great reason to rejoice as we,
since the world began; yea, and my joy is carried away, even unto
boasting in my God; for he has all power, all wisdom, and all
understanding; he comprehendeth all things, and he is a merciful
Being, even unto salvation, to those who will repent and believe
on his name.

 36 Now if this is boasting, even so will I boast; for this is my
life and my light, my joy and my salvation, and my redemption
from everlasting wo.  Yea, blessed is the name of my God, who has
been mindful of this people, who are a branch of the tree of
Israel, and has been lost from its body in a strange land; yea, I
say, blessed be the name of my God, who has been mindful of us,
wanderers in a strange land.

 37 Now my brethren, we see that God is mindful of every people,
whatsoever land they may be in; yea, he numbereth his people, and
his bowels of mercy are over all the earth.  Now this is my joy,
and my great thanksgiving; yea, and I will give thanks unto my
God forever.  Amen.

Chapter 27

 1 Now it came to pass that when those Lamanites who had gone to
war against the Nephites had found, after their many struggles to
destroy them, that it was in vain to seek their destruction, they
returned again to the land of Nephi.

 2 And it came to pass that the Amalekites, because of their
loss, were exceedingly angry.  And when they saw that they could
not seek revenge from the Nephites, they began to stir up the
people in anger against their brethren, the people of
Anti-Nephi-Lehi; therefore they began again to destroy them.

 3 Now this people again refused to take their arms, and they
suffered themselves to be slain according to the desires of their
enemies.

 4 Now when Ammon and his brethren saw this work of destruction
among those whom they so dearly beloved, and among those who had
so dearly beloved them--for they were treated as though they were
angels sent from God to save them from everlasting
destruction--therefore, when Ammon and his brethren saw this
great work of destruction, they were moved with compassion, and
they said unto the king:

 5 Let us gather together this people of the Lord, and let us go
down to the land of Zarahemla to our brethren the Nephites, and
flee out of the hands of our enemies, that we be not destroyed.

 6 But the king said unto them: Behold, the Nephites will destroy
us, because of the many murders and sins we have committed
against them.

 7 And Ammon said: I will go and inquire of the Lord, and if he
say unto us, go down unto our brethren, will ye go?

 8 And the king said unto him: Yea, if the Lord saith unto us go,
we will go down unto our brethren, and we will be their slaves
until we repair unto them the many murders and sins which we have
committed against them.

 9 But Ammon said unto him: It is against the law of our
brethren, which was established by my father, that there should
be any slaves among them; therefore let us go down and rely upon
the mercies of our brethren.

 10 But the king said unto him: Inquire of the Lord, and if he
saith unto us go, we will go; otherwise we will perish in the
land.

 11 And it came to pass that Ammon went and inquired of the Lord,
and the Lord said unto him:

 12 Get this people out of this land, that they perish not; for
Satan has great hold on the hearts of the Amalekites, who do stir
up the Lamanites to anger against their brethren to slay them;
therefore get thee out of this land; and blessed are this people
in this generation, for I will preserve them.

 13 And now it came to pass that Ammon went and told the king all
the words which the Lord had said unto him.

 14 And they gathered together all their people, yea, all the
people of the Lord, and did gather together all their flocks and
herds, and departed out of the land, and came into the wilderness
which divided the land of Nephi from the land of Zarahemla, and
came over near the borders of the land.

 15 And it came to pass that Ammon said unto them: Behold, I and
my brethren will go forth into the land of Zarahemla, and ye
shall remain here until we return; and we will try the hearts of
our brethren, whether they will that ye shall come into their
land.

 16 And it came to pass that as Ammon was going forth into the
land, that he and his brethren met Alma, over in the place of
which has been spoken; and behold, this was a joyful meeting.

 17 Now the joy of Ammon was so great even that he was full; yea,
he was swallowed up in the joy of his God, even to the exhausting
of his strength; and he fell again to the earth.

 18 Now was not this exceeding joy?  Behold, this is joy which
none receiveth save it be the truly penitent and humble seeker of
happiness.

 19 Now the joy of Alma in meeting his brethren was truly great,
and also the joy of Aaron, of Omner, and Himni; but behold their
joy was not that to exceed their strength.

 20 And now it came to pass that Alma conducted his brethren back
to the land of Zarahemla; even to his own house.  And they went
and told the chief judge all the things that had happened unto
them in the land of Nephi, among their brethren, the Lamanites.

 21 And it came to pass that the chief judge sent a proclamation
throughout all the land, desiring the voice of the people
concerning the admitting their brethren, who were the people of
Anti-Nephi-Lehi.

 22 And it came to pass that the voice of the people came,
saying: Behold, we will give up the land of Jershon, which is on
the east by the sea, which joins the land Bountiful, which is on
the south of the land Bountiful; and this land Jershon is the
land which we will give unto our brethren for an inheritance.

 23 And behold, we will set our armies between the land Jershon
and the land Nephi, that we may protect our brethren in the land
Jershon; and this we do for our brethren, on account of their
fear to take up arms against their brethren lest they should
commit sin; and this their great fear came because of their sore
repentance which they had, on account of their many murders and
their awful wickedness.

 24 And now behold, this will we do unto our brethren, that they
may inherit the land Jershon; and we will guard them from their
enemies with our armies, on condition that they will give us a
portion of their substance to assist us that we may maintain our
armies.

 25 Now, it came to pass that when Ammon had heard this, he
returned to the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi, and also Alma with
him, into the wilderness, where they had pitched their tents, and
made known unto them all these things.  And Alma also related
unto them his conversion, with Ammon and Aaron, and his brethren.

 26 And it came to pass that it did cause great joy among them. 
And they went down into the land of Jershon, and took possession
of the land of Jershon; and they were called by the Nephites the
people of Ammon; therefore they were distinguished by that name
ever after.

 27 And they were among the people of Nephi, and also numbered
among the people who were of the church of God.  And they were
also distinguished for their zeal towards God, and also towards
men; for they were perfectly honest and upright in all things;
and they were firm in the faith of Christ, even unto the end.

 28 And they did look upon shedding the blood of their brethren
with the greatest abhorrence; and they never could be prevailed
upon to take up arms against their brethren; and they never did
look upon death with any degree of terror, for their hope and
views of Christ and the resurrection; therefore, death was
swallowed up to them by the victory of Christ over it.

 29 Therefore, they would suffer death in the most aggravating
and distressing manner which could be inflicted by their
brethren, before they would take the sword or cimeter to smite
them.

 30 And thus they were a zealous and beloved people, a highly
favored people of the Lord.

Chapter 28

 1 And now it came to pass that after the people of Ammon were
established in the land of Jershon, and a church also established
in the land of Jershon, and the armies of the Nephites were set
round about the land of Jershon, yea, in all the borders round
about the land of Zarahemla; behold the armies of the Lamanites
had followed their brethren into the wilderness.

 2 And thus there was a tremendous battle; yea, even such an one
as never had been known among all the people in the land from the
time Lehi left Jerusalem; yea, and tens of thousands of the
Lamanites were slain and scattered abroad.

 3 Yea, and also there was a tremendous slaughter among the
people of Nephi; nevertheless, the Lamanites were driven and
scattered, and the people of Nephi returned again to their land.

 4 And now this was a time that there was a great mourning and
lamentation heard throughout all the land, among all the people
of Nephi--

 5 Yea, the cry of widows mourning for their husbands, and also
of fathers mourning for their sons, and the daughter for the
brother, yea, the brother for the father; and thus the cry of
mourning was heard among all of them, mourning for their kindred
who had been slain.

 6 And now surely this was a sorrowful day; yea, a time of
solemnity, and a time of much fasting and prayer.

 7 And thus endeth the fifteenth year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi;

 8 And this is the account of Ammon and his brethren, their
journeyings in the land of Nephi, their sufferings in the land,
their sorrows, and their afflictions, and their incomprehensible
joy, and the reception and safety of the brethren in the land of
Jershon.  And now may the Lord, the Redeemer of all men, bless
their souls forever.

 9 And this is the account of the wars and contentions among the
Nephites, and also the wars between the Nephites and the
Lamanites; and the fifteenth year of the reign of the judges is
ended.

 10 And from the first year to the fifteenth has brought to pass
the destruction of many thousand lives; yea, it has brought to
pass an awful scene of bloodshed.

 11 And the bodies of many thousands are laid low in the earth,
while the bodies of many thousands are moldering in heaps upon
the face of the earth; yea, and many thousands are mourning for
the loss of their kindred, because they have reason to fear,
according to the promises of the Lord, that they are consigned to
a state of endless wo.

 12 While many thousands of others truly mourn for the loss of
their kindred, yet they rejoice and exult in the hope, and even
know, according to the promises of the Lord, that they are raised
to dwell at the right hand of God, in a state of never-ending
happiness.

 13 And thus we see how great the inequality of man is because of
sin and transgression, and the power of the devil, which comes by
the cunning plans which he hath devised to ensnare the hearts of
men.

 14 And thus we see the great call of diligence of men to labor
in the vineyards of the Lord; and thus we see the great reason of
sorrow, and also of rejoicing--sorrow because of death and
destruction among men, and joy because of the light of Christ
unto life.

Chapter 29

 1 O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart,
that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a
voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people!

 2 Yea, I would declare unto every soul, as with the voice of
thunder, repentance and the plan of redemption, that they should
repent and come unto our God, that there might not be more sorrow
upon all the face of the earth.

 3 But behold, I am a man, and do sin in my wish; for I ought to
be content with the things which the Lord hath allotted unto me.

 4 I ought not to harrow up in my desires, the firm decree of a
just God, for I know that he granteth unto men according to their
desire, whether it be unto death or unto life; yea, I know that
he allotteth unto men, yea, decreeth unto them decrees which are
unalterable, according to their wills, whether they be unto
salvation or unto destruction.

 5 Yea, and I know that good and evil have come before all men;
he that knoweth not good from evil is blameless; but he that
knoweth good and evil, to him it is given according to his
desires, whether he desireth good or evil, life or death, joy or
remorse of conscience.

 6 Now, seeing that I know these things, why should I desire more
than to perform the work to which I have been called?

 7 Why should I desire that I were an angel, that I could speak
unto all the ends of the earth?

 8 For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations, of their own
nation and tongue, to teach his word, yea, in wisdom, all that he
seeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the Lord
doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just and true.

 9 I know that which the Lord hath commanded me, and I glory in
it.  I do not glory of myself, but I glory in that which the Lord
hath commanded me; yea, and this is my glory, that perhaps I may
be an instrument in the hands of God to bring some soul to
repentance; and this is my joy.

 10 And behold, when I see many of my brethren truly penitent,
and coming to the Lord their God, then is my soul filled with
joy; then do I remember what the Lord has done for me, yea, even
that he hath heard my prayer; yea, then do I remember his
merciful arm which he extended towards me.

 11 Yea, and I also remember the captivity of my fathers; for I
surely do know that the Lord did deliver them out of bondage, and
by this did establish his church; yea, the Lord God, the God of
Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, did deliver them
out of bondage.

 12 Yea, I have always remembered the captivity of my fathers;
and that same God who delivered them out of the hands of the
Egyptians did deliver them out of bondage.

 13 Yea, and that same God did establish his church among them;
yea, and that same God hath called me by a holy calling, to
preach the word unto this people, and hath given me much success,
in the which my joy is full.

 14 But I do not joy in my own success alone, but my joy is more
full because of the success of my brethren, who have been up to
the land of Nephi.

 15 Behold, they have labored exceedingly, and have brought forth
much fruit; and how great shall be their reward!

 16 Now, when I think of the success of these my brethren my soul
is carried away, even to the separation of it from the body, as
it were, so great is my joy.

 17 And now may God grant unto these, my brethren, that they may
sit down in the kingdom of God; yea, and also all those who are
the fruit of their labors that they may go no more out, but that
they may praise him forever.  And may God grant that it may be
done according to my words, even as I have spoken.  Amen.

