THE SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI

	And now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had made an end of teaching my brethren, our father, Lehi, also spake many things unto them, and rehearsed unto them, how great things the Lord had done for them in bringing them out of the land of Jerusalem. And he spake unto them concerning their rebellions upon the waters, and the mercies of God in sparing their lives, that they were not swallowed up in the sea. And he also spake unto them concerning the land of promise, which they had obtained--how merciful the Lord had been in warning us that we should flee out of the land of Jerusalem.
	“For, behold,” said he, “I have seen a vision, in which I know that Jerusalem is destroyed; and had we remained in Jerusalem we should also have perished. But,” said he “, notwithstanding our afflictions, we have obtained a land of promise, a land which is choice above all other lands; a land which the Lord God hath covenanted with me should be a land for the inheritance of my seed.  Yea, the Lord hath covenanted this land unto me, and to my children forever, and also all those who should be led out of other countries by the hand of the Lord. Wherefore, I, Lehi, prophesy according to the workings of the Spirit which is in me, that there shall none come into this land save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord. Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring.  And if it so be that they shall serve him according to the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought down into captivity; if so, it shall be because of iniquity; for if iniquity shall abound cursed shall be the land for their sakes, but unto the righteous it shall be blessed forever. And behold, it is wisdom that this land should be kept as yet from the knowledge of other nations; for behold, many nations would overrun the land, that there would be no place for an inheritance.
	Wherefore, I, Lehi, have obtained a promise, that inasmuch as those whom the Lord God shall bring out of the land of Jerusalem shall keep his commandments, they shall prosper upon the face of this land; and they shall be kept from all other nations, that they may possess this land unto themselves.  And if it so be that they shall keep his commandments they shall be blessed upon the face of this land, and there shall be none to molest them, nor to take away the land of their inheritance; and they shall dwell safely forever. But behold, when the time cometh that they shall dwindle in unbelief, after they have received so great blessings from the hand of the Lord--having a knowledge of the creation of the earth, and all men, knowing the great and marvelous works of the Lord from the creation of the world; having power given them to do all things by faith; having all the commandments from the beginning, and having been brought by his infinite goodness into this precious land of promise--behold, I say, if the day shall come that they will reject the Holy One of Israel, the true Messiah, their Redeemer and their God, behold, the judgments of him that is just shall rest upon them. Yea, he will bring other nations unto them, and he will give unto them power, and he will take away from them the lands of their possessions, and he will cause them to be scattered and smitten. Yea, as one generation passeth to another there shall be bloodsheds, and great visitations among them; wherefore, my sons, I would that ye would remember; yea, I would that ye would hearken unto my words.
	“O that ye would awake; awake from a deep sleep, yea, even from the sleep of hell, and shake off the awful chains by which ye are bound, which are the chains which bind the children of men, that they are carried away captive down to the eternal gulf of misery and woe. Awake!  and arise from the dust, and hear the words of a trembling parent, whose limbs ye must soon lay down in the cold and silent grave, from whence no traveler can return; a few more days and I go the way of all the earth.
	“But behold, the Lord hath redeemed my soul from hell; I have beheld his glory, and I am encircled about eternally in the arms of his love. And I desire that ye should remember to observe the statutes and the judgments of the Lord; behold, this hath been the anxiety of my soul from the beginning. My heart hath been weighed down with sorrow from time to time, for I have feared, lest for the hardness of your hearts the Lord your God should come out in the fulness of his wrath upon you, that ye be cut off and destroyed forever; Or, that a cursing should come upon you for the space of many generations; and ye are visited by sword, and by famine, and are hated, and are led according to the will and captivity of the devil. O my sons, that these things might not come upon you, but that ye might be a choice and a favored people of the Lord.  But behold, his will be done; for his ways are righteousness forever. And he hath said that: Inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments ye shall prosper in the land; but inasmuch as ye will not keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from my presence.
	“And now that my soul might have joy in you, and that my heart might leave this world with gladness because of you, that I might not be brought down with grief and sorrow to the grave, arise from the dust, my sons, and be men, and be determined in one mind and in one heart, united in all things, that ye may not come down into captivity; That ye may not be cursed with a sore cursing; and also, that ye may not incur the displeasure of a just God upon you, unto the destruction, yea, the eternal destruction of both soul and body. Awake, my sons; put on the armor of righteousness.  Shake off the chains with which ye are bound, and come forth out of obscurity, and arise from the dust.
	“Rebel no more against your brother, whose views have been glorious, and who hath kept the commandments from the time that we left Jerusalem; and who hath been an instrument in the hands of God, in bringing us forth into the land of promise; for were it not for him, we must have perished with hunger in the wilderness; nevertheless, ye sought to take away his life; yea, and he hath suffered much sorrow because of you. And I exceedingly fear and tremble because of you, lest he shall suffer again; for behold, ye have accused him that he sought power and authority over you; but I know that he hath not sought for power nor authority over you, but he hath sought the glory of God, and your own eternal welfare. And ye have murmured because he hath been plain unto you.  Ye say that he hath used sharpness; ye say that he hath been angry with you; but behold, his sharpness was the sharpness of the power of the word of God, which was in him; and that which ye call anger was the truth, according to that which is in God, which he could not restrain, manifesting boldly concerning your iniquities. And it must needs be that the power of God must be with him, even unto his commanding you that ye must obey.  But behold, it was not he, but it was the Spirit of the Lord which was in him, which opened his mouth to utterance that he could not shut it.
	“And now my son, Laman, and also Lemuel and Sam, and also my sons who are the sons of Ishmael, behold, if ye will hearken unto the voice of Nephi ye shall not perish.  And if ye will hearken unto him I leave unto you a blessing, yea, even my first blessing. But if ye will not hearken unto him I take away my first blessing, yea, even my blessing, and it shall rest upon him.
 	“And now Zoram, I speak unto you: Behold, thou art the servant of Laban; nevertheless, thou hast been brought out of the land of Jerusalem, and I know that thou art a true friend unto my son, Nephi, forever. Wherefore, because thou hast been faithful thy seed shall be blessed with his seed, that they dwell in prosperity long upon the face of this land; and nothing, save it shall be iniquity among them, shall harm or disturb their prosperity upon the face of this land forever. Wherefore, if ye shall keep the commandments of the Lord, the Lord hath consecrated this land for the security of thy seed with the seed of my son.
	“And now, Jacob, I speak unto you: Thou art my first-born in the days of my tribulation in the wilderness.  And behold, in thy childhood thou hast suffered afflictions and much sorrow, because of the rudeness of thy brethren. Nevertheless, Jacob, my first-born in the wilderness, thou knowest the greatness of God; and he shall consecrate thine afflictions for thy gain. Wherefore, thy soul shall be blessed, and thou shalt dwell safely with thy brother, Nephi; and thy days shall be spent in the service of thy God.  
	“Wherefore, I know that thou art redeemed, because of the righteousness of thy Redeemer; for thou hast beheld that in the fulness of time he cometh to bring salvation unto men. And thou hast beheld in thy youth his glory; wherefore, thou art blessed even as they unto whom he shall minister in the flesh; for the Spirit is the same, yesterday, today, and forever. And the way is prepared from the fall of man, and salvation is free. And men are instructed sufficiently that they know good from evil.  And the law is given unto men.  And by the law no flesh is justified; or, by the law men are cut off.  Yea, by the temporal law they were cut off; and also, by the spiritual law they perish from that which is good, and become miserable forever. 
	“Wherefore, redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah; for he is full of grace and truth. Behold, he offereth himself a sacrifice for sin, to answer the ends of the law, unto all those who have a broken heart and a contrite spirit; and unto none else can the ends of the law be answered. Wherefore, how great the importance to make these things known unto the inhabitants of the earth, that they may know that there is no flesh that can dwell in the presence of God, save it be through the merits, and mercy, and grace of the Holy Messiah, who layeth down his life according to the flesh, and taketh it again by the power of the Spirit, that he may bring to pass the resurrection of the dead, being the first that should rise. Wherefore, he is the first-fruits unto God, inasmuch as he shall make intercession for all the children of men; and they that believe in him shall be saved. And because of the intercession for all, all men come unto God; wherefore, they stand in the presence of him to be judged of him according to the truth and holiness which is in him.  
	“Wherefore, the ends of the law which the Holy One hath given, unto the inflicting of the punishment which is affixed, which punishment that is affixed is in opposition to that of the happiness which is affixed, to answer the ends of the atonement-- For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things.  If not so, my first-born in the wilderness, righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad.  Wherefore, all things must needs be a compound in one; wherefore, if it should be one body it must needs remain as dead, having no life neither death, nor corruption nor incorruption, happiness nor misery, neither sense nor insensibility. Wherefore, it must needs have been created for a thing of naught; wherefore there would have been no purpose in the end of its creation.  Wherefore, this thing must needs destroy the wisdom of God and his eternal purposes, and also the power, and the mercy, and the justice of God. 
	“And if ye shall say there is no law, ye shall also say there is no sin.  If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness.  And if there be no righteousness there be no happiness.  And if there be no righteousness nor happiness there be no punishment nor misery.  And if these things are not there is no God.  And if there is no God we are not, neither the earth; for there could have been no creation of things, neither to act nor to be acted upon; wherefore, all things must have vanished away. 
	“And now, my sons, I speak unto you these things for your profit and learning; for there is a God, and he hath created all things, both the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are, both things to act and things to be acted upon. And to bring about his eternal purposes in the end of man, after he had created our first parents, and the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and in fine, all things which are created, it must needs be that there was an opposition; even the forbidden fruit in opposition to the tree of life; the one being sweet and the other bitter. Wherefore, the Lord God gave unto man that he should act for himself.  Wherefore, man could not act for himself save it should be that he was enticed by the one or the other. 
	“And I, Lehi, according to the things which I have read, must needs suppose that an angel of God, according to that which is written, had fallen from heaven; wherefore, he became a devil, having sought that which was evil before God. And because he had fallen from heaven, and had become miserable forever, he sought also the misery of all mankind.  Wherefore, he said unto Eve, yea, even that old serpent, who is the devil, who is the father of all lies, wherefore he said, ‘Partake of the forbidden fruit, and ye shall not die, but ye shall be as God, knowing good and evil.’ 
	“And after Adam and Eve had partaken of the forbidden fruit they were driven out of the garden of Eden, to till the earth. And they have brought forth children; yea, even the family of all the earth. And the days of the children of men were prolonged, according to the will of God, that they might repent while in the flesh; wherefore, their state became a state of probation, and their time was lengthened, according to the commandments which the Lord God gave unto the children of men.  For he gave commandment that all men must repent; for he showed unto all men that they were lost, because of the transgression of their parents. 
	“And now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he would not have fallen, but he would have remained in the garden of Eden.  And all things which were created must have remained in the same state in which they were after they were created; and they must have remained forever, and had no end. And they would have had no children; wherefore they would have remained in a state of innocence, having no joy, for they knew no misery; doing no good, for they knew no sin. But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things. Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy. And the Messiah cometh in the fulness of time, that he may redeem the children of men from the fall.  And because that they are redeemed from the fall they have become free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon, save it be by the punishment of the law at the great and last day, according to the commandments which God hath given. 
	“Wherefore, men are free according to the flesh; and all things are given them which are expedient unto man.  And they are free to choose liberty and eternal life, through the great Mediator of all men, or to choose captivity and death, according to the captivity and power of the devil; for he seeketh that all men might be miserable like unto himself. 
	“And now, my sons, I would that ye should look to the great Mediator, and hearken unto his great commandments; and be faithful unto his words, and choose eternal life, according to the will of his Holy Spirit; And not choose eternal death, according to the will of the flesh and the evil which is therein, which giveth the spirit of the devil power to captivate, to bring you down to hell, that he may reign over you in his own kingdom. 
	“I have spoken these few words unto you all, my sons, in the last days of my probation; and I have chosen the good part, according to the words of the prophet.  And I have none other object save it be the everlasting welfare of your souls.  Amen.
  	“And now I speak unto you, Joseph, my last-born.  Thou wast born in the wilderness of mine afflictions; yea, in the days of my greatest sorrow did thy mother bear thee.
And may the Lord consecrate also unto thee this land, which is a most precious land, for thine inheritance and the inheritance of thy seed with thy brethren, for thy security forever, if it so be that ye shall keep the commandments of the Holy One of Israel. 
	“And now, Joseph, my last-born, whom I have brought out of the wilderness of mine afflictions, may the Lord bless thee forever, for thy seed shall not utterly be destroyed. For behold, thou art the fruit of my loins; and I am a descendant of Joseph who was carried captive into Egypt.  And great were the covenants of the Lord which he made unto Joseph. Wherefore, Joseph truly saw our day.  And he obtained a promise of the Lord, that out of the fruit of his loins the Lord God would raise up a righteous branch unto the house of Israel; not the Messiah, but a branch which was to be broken off, nevertheless, to be remembered in the covenants of the Lord that the Messiah should be made manifest unto them in the latter days, in the spirit of power, unto the bringing of them out of darkness unto light--yea, out of hidden darkness and out of captivity unto freedom. 
	“For Joseph truly testified, saying, ‘A seer shall the Lord my God raise up, who shall be a choice seer unto the fruit of my loins.’ Yea, Joseph truly said, ‘Thus saith the Lord unto me, “A choice seer will I raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and he shall be esteemed highly among the fruit of thy loins.  And unto him will I give commandment that he shall do a work for the fruit of thy loins, his brethren, which shall be of great worth unto them, even to the bringing of them to the knowledge of the covenants which I have made with thy fathers. And I will give unto him a commandment that he shall do none other work, save the work which I shall command him.  And I will make him great in mine eyes; for he shall do my work. And he shall be great like unto Moses, whom I have said I would raise up unto you, to deliver my people, O house of Israel. And Moses will I raise up, to deliver thy people out of the land of Egypt. 
	‘“But a seer will I raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and unto him will I give power to bring forth my word unto the seed of thy loins—and not to the bringing forth my word only,” saith the Lord, “but to the convincing them of my word, which shall have already gone forth among them. 
	‘“Wherefore, the fruit of thy loins shall write; and the fruit of the loins of Judah shall write; and that which shall be written by the fruit of thy loins, and also that which shall be written by the fruit of the loins of Judah, shall grow together, unto the confounding of false doctrines and laying down of contentions, and establishing peace among the fruit of thy loins, and bringing them to the knowledge of their fathers in the latter days, and also to the knowledge of my covenants,” saith the Lord. 
	‘”And out of weakness he shall be made strong, in that day when my work shall commence among all my people, unto the restoring thee, O house of Israel,” saith the Lord.’ 
	“And thus prophesied Joseph, saying, ‘Behold, that seer will the Lord bless; and they that seek to destroy him shall be confounded; for this promise, which I have obtained of the Lord, of the fruit of my loins, shall be fulfilled.  Behold, I am sure of the fulfilling of this promise; And his name shall be called after me; and it shall be after the name of his father.  And he shall be like unto me; for the thing, which the Lord shall bring forth by his hand, by the power of the Lord shall bring my people unto salvation.’ 
	“Yea, thus prophesied Joseph, ‘I am sure of this thing, even as I am sure of the promise of Moses; for the Lord hath said unto me, “I will preserve thy seed forever.” And the Lord hath said, “I will raise up a Moses; and I will give power unto him in a rod; and I will give judgment unto him in writing.  Yet I will not loose his tongue, that he shall speak much, for I will not make him mighty in speaking.  But I will write unto him my law, by the finger of mine own hand; and I will make a spokesman for him.” 
	‘And the Lord said unto me also, “I will raise up unto the fruit of thy loins; and I will make for him a spokesman.  And I, behold, I will give unto him that he shall write the writing of the fruit of thy loins, unto the fruit of thy loins; and the spokesman of thy loins shall declare it. And the words which he shall write shall be the words which are expedient in my wisdom should go forth unto the fruit of thy loins.  And it shall be as if the fruit of thy loins had cried unto them from the dust; for I know their faith. 
	‘“And they shall cry from the dust; yea, even repentance unto their brethren, even after many generations have gone by them.  And it shall come to pass that their cry shall go, even according to the simpleness of their words. Because of their faith their words shall proceed forth out of my mouth unto their brethren who are the fruit of thy loins; and the weakness of their words will I make strong in their faith, unto the remembering of my covenant which I made unto thy fathers.”’ 
	“And now, behold, my son Joseph, after this manner did my father of old prophesy. Wherefore, because of this covenant thou art blessed; for thy seed shall not be destroyed, for they shall hearken unto the words of the book. And there shall rise up one mighty among them, who shall do much good, both in word and in deed, being an instrument in the hands of God, with exceeding faith, to work mighty wonders, and do that thing which is great in the sight of God, unto the bringing to pass much restoration unto the house of Israel, and unto the seed of thy brethren. 
	“And now, blessed art thou, Joseph.  Behold, thou art little; wherefore hearken unto the words of thy brother, Nephi, and it shall be done unto thee even according to the words which I have spoken.  Remember the words of thy dying father.  Amen.”
	And now, I, Nephi, speak concerning the prophecies of which my father hath spoken, concerning Joseph, who was carried into Egypt. For behold, he truly prophesied concerning all his seed.  And the prophecies which he wrote, there are not many greater.  And he prophesied concerning us, and our future generations; and they are written upon the plates of brass.
	Wherefore, after my father had made an end of speaking concerning the prophecies of Joseph, he called the children of Laman, his sons, and his daughters, and said unto them, “Behold, my sons, and my daughters, who are the sons and the daughters of my first-born, I would that ye should give ear unto my words. For the Lord God hath said that, ‘Inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments ye shall prosper in the land; and inasmuch as ye will not keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from my presence.’
	“But behold, my sons and my daughters, I cannot go down to my grave save I should leave a blessing upon you; for behold, I know that if ye are brought up in the way ye should go ye will not depart from it. Wherefore, if ye are cursed, behold, I leave my blessing upon you, that the cursing may be taken from you and be answered upon the heads of your parents. Wherefore, because of my blessing the Lord God will not suffer that ye shall perish; wherefore, he will be merciful unto you and unto your seed forever.”
	And it came to pass that after my father had made an end of speaking to the sons and daughters of Laman, he caused the sons and daughters of Lemuel to be brought before him. And he spake unto them, saying, “Behold, my sons and my daughters, who are the sons and the daughters of my second son; behold I leave unto you the same blessing which I left unto the sons and daughters of Laman; wherefore, thou shalt not utterly be destroyed; but in the end thy seed shall be blessed.”
	And it came to pass that when my father had made an end of speaking unto them, behold, he spake unto the sons of Ishmael, yea, and even all his household. 	And after he had made an end of speaking unto them, he spake unto Sam, saying, “Blessed art thou, and thy seed; for thou shall inherit the land like unto thy brother Nephi.  And thy seed shall be numbered with his seed; and thou shalt be even like unto thy brother, and thy seed like unto his seed; and thou shalt be blessed in all thy days.”
	And it came to pass after my father, Lehi, had spoken unto all his household, according to the feelings of his heart and the Spirit of the Lord which was in him, he waxed old.  And it came to pass that he died, and was buried. 	And it came to pass that not many days after his death, Laman and Lemuel and the sons of Ishmael were angry with me because of the admonitions of the Lord. For I, Nephi, was constrained to speak unto them, according to his word; for I had spoken many things unto them, and also my father, before his death; many of which sayings are written upon mine other plates; for a more history part are written upon mine other plates. And upon these I write the things of my soul, and many of the scriptures which are engraven upon the plates of brass.  For my soul delighteth in the scriptures, and my heart pondereth them, and writeth them for the learning and the profit of my children. Behold, my soul delighteth in the things of the Lord; and my heart pondereth continually upon the things which I have seen and heard.
	Nevertheless, notwithstanding the great goodness of the Lord, in showing me his great and marvelous works, my heart exclaimeth, ‘O wretched man that I am!’  Yea, my heart sorroweth because of my flesh; my soul grieveth because of mine iniquities. I am encompassed about, because of the temptations and the sins which do so easily beset me. And when I desire to rejoice, my heart groaneth because of my sins; nevertheless, I know in whom I have trusted. My God hath been my support; he hath led me through mine afflictions in the wilderness; and he hath preserved me upon the waters of the great deep.
	He hath filled me with his love, even unto the consuming of my flesh. He hath confounded mine enemies, unto the causing of them to quake before me. Behold, he hath heard my cry by day, and he hath given me knowledge by visions in the nighttime. And by day have I waxed bold in mighty prayer before him; yea, my voice have I sent up on high; and angels came down and ministered unto me. And upon the wings of his Spirit hath my body been carried away upon exceedingly high mountains.  And mine eyes have beheld great things, yea, even too great for man; therefore I was bidden that I should not write them.
	O then, if I have seen so great things, if the Lord in his condescension unto the children of men hath visited men in so much mercy, why should my heart weep and my soul linger in the valley of sorrow, and my flesh waste away, and my strength slacken, because of mine afflictions? And why should I yield to sin, because of my flesh?  Yea, why should I give way to temptations, that the evil one have place in my heart to destroy my peace and afflict my soul?  Why am I angry because of mine enemy?
	Awake, my soul!  No longer droop in sin.  Rejoice, O my heart, and give place no more for the enemy of my soul. Do not anger again because of mine enemies.  Do not slacken my strength because of mine afflictions. Rejoice, O my heart, and cry unto the Lord, and say: O Lord, I will praise thee forever; yea, my soul will rejoice in thee, my God, and the rock of my salvation.
	O Lord, wilt thou redeem my soul?  Wilt thou deliver me out of the hands of mine enemies?  Wilt thou make me that I may shake at the appearance of sin? May the gates of hell be shut continually before me, because that my heart is broken and my spirit is contrite!  O Lord, wilt thou not shut the gates of thy righteousness before me, that I may walk in the path of the low valley, that I may be strict in the plain road! O Lord, wilt thou encircle me around in the robe of thy righteousness!  O Lord, wilt thou make a way for mine escape before mine enemies!  Wilt thou make my path straight before me!  Wilt thou not place a stumbling block in my way--but that thou wouldst clear my way before me, and hedge not up my way, but the ways of mine enemy.
	O Lord, I have trusted in thee, and I will trust in thee forever.  I will not put my trust in the arm of flesh; for I know that cursed is he that putteth his trust in the arm of flesh.  Yea, cursed is he that putteth his trust in man or maketh flesh his arm. Yea, I know that God will give liberally to him that asketh.  Yea, my God will give me, if I ask not amiss; therefore I will lift up my voice unto thee; yea, I will cry unto thee, my God, the rock of my righteousness.  Behold, my voice shall forever ascend up unto thee, my rock and mine everlasting God.  Amen.
	Behold, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cry much unto the Lord my God, because of the anger of my brethren. But behold, their anger did increase against me, insomuch that they did seek to take away my life. Yea, they did murmur against me, saying, “Our younger brother thinks to rule over us; and we have had much trial because of him; wherefore, now let us slay him, that we may not be afflicted more because of his words.  For behold, we will not have him to be our ruler; for it belongs unto us, who are the elder brethren, to rule over this people.”
	Now I do not write upon these plates all the words which they murmured against me.  But it sufficeth me to say, that they did seek to take away my life. And it came to pass that the Lord did warn me, that I, Nephi, should depart from them and flee into the wilderness, and all those who would go with me. Wherefore, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did take my family, and also Zoram and his family, and Sam, mine elder brother and his family, and Jacob and Joseph, my younger brethren, and also my sisters, and all those who would go with me.  And all those who would go with me were those who believed in the warnings and the revelations of God; wherefore, they did hearken unto my words. And we did take our tents and whatsoever things were possible for us, and did journey in the wilderness for the space of many days.  And after we had journeyed for the space of many days we did pitch our tents. And my people would that we should call the name of the place Nephi; wherefore, we did call it Nephi. And all those who were with me did take upon them to call themselves the people of Nephi.
	And we did observe to keep the judgments, and the statutes, and the commandments of the Lord in all things according to the law of Moses. And the Lord was with us; and we did prosper exceedingly; for we did sow seed, and we did reap again in abundance.  And we began to raise flocks, and herds, and animals of every kind. And I, Nephi, had also brought the records which were engraven upon the plates of brass; and also the ball, or compass, which was prepared for my father by the hand of the Lord, according to that which is written. And it came to pass that we began to prosper exceedingly, and to multiply in the land.
	And I, Nephi, did take the sword of Laban, and after the manner of it did make many swords, lest by any means the people who were now called Lamanites should come upon us and destroy us; for I knew their hatred towards me and my children and those who were called my people. And I did teach my people to build buildings, and to work in all manner of wood, and of iron, and of copper, and of brass, and of steel, and of gold, and of silver, and of precious ores, which were in great abundance.
	And I, Nephi, did build a temple; and I did construct it after the manner of the temple of Solomon save it were not built of so many precious things; for they were not to be found upon the land, wherefore, it could not be built like unto Solomon's temple.  But the manner of the construction was like unto the temple of Solomon; and the workmanship thereof was exceedingly fine.
	And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cause my people to be industrious, and to labor with their hands. And it came to pass that they would that I should be their king.  But I, Nephi, was desirous that they should have no king; nevertheless, I did for them according to that which was in my power.
	And behold, the words of the Lord had been fulfilled unto my brethren, which he spake concerning them, that I should be their ruler and their teacher.  Wherefore, I had been their ruler and their teacher, according to the commandments of the Lord, until the time they sought to take away my life. Wherefore, the word of the Lord was fulfilled which he spake unto me, saying that: Inasmuch as they will not hearken unto thy words they shall be cut off from the presence of the Lord.  And behold, they were cut off from his presence.
	And he had caused the cursing to come upon them, yea, even a sore cursing, because of their iniquity.  For behold, they had hardened their hearts against him, that they had become like unto a flint; wherefore, as they were white, and exceedingly fair and delightsome, that they might not be enticing unto my people the Lord God did cause a skin of blackness to come upon them. And thus saith the Lord God, “I will cause that they shall be loathsome unto thy people, save they shall repent of their iniquities. And cursed shall be the seed of him that mixeth with their seed; for they shall be cursed even with the same cursing.”  And the Lord spake it, and it was done.
	And because of their cursing which was upon them they did become an idle people, full of mischief and subtlety, and did seek in the wilderness for beasts of prey. And the Lord God said unto me, “They shall be a scourge unto thy seed, to stir them up in remembrance of me; and inasmuch as they will not remember me, and hearken unto my words, they shall scourge them even unto destruction.”
	And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did consecrate Jacob and Joseph, that they should be priests and teachers over the land of my people. And it came to pass that we lived after the manner of happiness. And thirty years had passed away from the time we left Jerusalem.
	And I, Nephi, had kept the records upon my plates, which I had made, of my people thus far. And it came to pass that the Lord God said unto me, “Make other plates; and thou shalt engraven many things upon them which are good in my sight, for the profit of thy people.” Wherefore, I, Nephi, to be obedient to the commandments of the Lord, went and made these plates upon which I have engraven these things. And I engraved that which is pleasing unto God.  And if my people are pleased with the things of God they will be pleased with mine engravings which are upon these plates. And if my people desire to know the more particular part of the history of my people they must search mine other plates. And it sufficeth me to say that forty years had passed away, and we had already had wars and contentions with our brethren.
	The words of Jacob, the brother of Nephi, which he spake unto the people of Nephi, “Behold, my beloved brethren, I, Jacob, having been called of God, and ordained after the manner of his holy order, and having been consecrated by my brother Nephi, unto whom ye look as a king or a protector, and on whom ye depend for safety, behold ye know that I have spoken unto you exceedingly many things. Nevertheless, I speak unto you again; for I am desirous for the welfare of your souls.  Yea, mine anxiety is great for you; and ye yourselves know that it ever has been.  For I have exhorted you with all diligence; and I have taught you the words of my father; and I have spoken unto you concerning all things which are written, from the creation of the world.
	And now, behold, I would speak unto you concerning things which are, and which are to come; wherefore, I will read you the words of Isaiah.  And they are the words which my brother has desired that I should speak unto you.  And I speak unto you for your sakes, that ye may learn and glorify the name of your God. And now, the words which I shall read are they which Isaiah spake concerning all the house of Israel; wherefore, they may be likened unto you, for ye are of the house of Israel.  And there are many things which have been spoken by Isaiah which may be likened unto you, because ye are of the house of Israel.
	“And now these are the words, ‘Thus saith the Lord God, “Behold, I will lift up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set up my standard to the people; and they shall bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daughters shall be carried upon their shoulders. And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy nursing mothers; they shall bow down to thee with their faces towards the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet; and thou shalt know that I am the Lord; for they shall not be ashamed that wait for me.”’
	“And now I, Jacob, would speak somewhat concerning these words. For behold, the Lord has shown me that those who were at Jerusalem, from whence we came, have been slain and carried away captive. Nevertheless, the Lord has shown unto me that they should return again.  And he also has shown unto me that the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, should manifest himself unto them in the flesh; and after he should manifest himself they should scourge him and crucify him, according to the words of the angel who spake it unto me. And after they have hardened their hearts and stiffened their necks against the Holy One of Israel, behold the judgments of the Holy One of Israel shall come upon them.  And the day cometh that they shall be smitten and afflicted.
[b
	“Wherefore, after they are driven to and fro, for thus saith the angel, many shall be afflicted in the flesh, and shall not be suffered to perish, because of the prayers of the faithful; they shall be scattered, and smitten, and hated; nevertheless, the Lord will be merciful unto them, that when they shall come to the knowledge of their Redeemer, they shall be gathered together again to the lands of their inheritance. And blessed are the Gentiles, they of whom the prophet has written; for behold, if it so be that they shall repent and fight not against Zion, and do not unite themselves to that great and abominable church, they shall be saved; for the Lord God will fulfil his covenants which he has made unto his children; and for this cause the prophet has written these things.
	“Awake, awake, put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city; for henceforth there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the unclean. Shake thyself from the dust; arise, sit down, O Jerusalem; loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion.”
]
	“And now, my beloved brethren, I have read these things that ye might know concerning the covenants of the Lord that he has covenanted with all the house of Israel-- That he has spoken unto the Jews, by the mouth of his holy prophets, even from the beginning down, from generation to generation, until the time comes that they shall be restored to the true church and fold of God; when they shall be gathered home to the lands of their inheritance, and shall be established in all their lands of promise.
	“Behold, my beloved brethren, I speak unto you these things that ye may rejoice, and lift up your heads forever, because of the blessings which the Lord God shall bestow upon your children. For I know that ye have searched much, many of you, to know of things to come; wherefore I know that ye know that our flesh must waste away and die; nevertheless, in our bodies we shall see God. Yea, I know that ye know that in the body he shall show himself unto those at Jerusalem, from whence we came; for it is expedient that it should be among them; for it behooveth the great Creator that he suffereth himself to become subject unto man in the flesh, and die for all men, that all men might become subject unto him.
	“For as death hath passed upon all men, to fulfil the merciful plan of the great Creator, there must needs be a power of resurrection, and the resurrection must needs come unto man by reason of the fall; and the fall came by reason of transgression; and because man became fallen they were cut off from the presence of the Lord. Wherefore, it must needs be an infinite atonement--save it should be an infinite atonement this corruption could not put on incorruption.  Wherefore, the first judgment which came upon man must needs have remained to an endless duration.  And if so, this flesh must have laid down to rot and to crumble to its mother earth, to rise no more.
	“O the wisdom of God, his mercy and grace!  For behold, if the flesh should rise no more our spirits must become subject to that angel who fell from before the presence of the Eternal God, and became the devil, to rise no more. And our spirits must have become like unto him, and we become devils, angels to a devil, to be shut out from the presence of our God, and to remain with the father of lies, in misery, like unto himself; yea, to that being who beguiled our first parents, who transformeth himself nigh unto an angel of light, and stirreth up the children of men unto secret combinations of murder and all manner of secret works of darkness.
	“O how great the goodness of our God, who prepareth a way for our escape from the grasp of this awful monster; yea, that monster, death and hell, which I call the death of the body, and also the death of the spirit. And because of the way of deliverance of our God, the Holy One of Israel, this death, of which I have spoken, which is the temporal, shall deliver up its dead; which death is the grave. And this death of which I have spoken, which is the spiritual death, shall deliver up its dead; which spiritual death is hell; wherefore, death and hell must deliver up their dead, and hell must deliver up its captive spirits, and the grave must deliver up its captive bodies, and the bodies and the spirits of men will be restored one to the other; and it is by the power of the resurrection of the Holy One of Israel.
	“O how great the plan of our God!  For on the other hand, the paradise of God must deliver up the spirits of the righteous, and the grave deliver up the body of the righteous; and the spirit and the body is restored to itself again, and all men become incorruptible, and immortal, and they are living souls, having a perfect knowledge like unto us in the flesh, save it be that our knowledge shall be perfect. Wherefore, we shall have a perfect knowledge of all our guilt, and our uncleanness, and our nakedness; and the righteous shall have a perfect knowledge of their enjoyment, and their righteousness, being clothed with purity, yea, even with the robe of righteousness.
	“And it shall come to pass that when all men shall have passed from this first death unto life, insomuch as they have become immortal, they must appear before the judgment-seat of the Holy One of Israel; and then cometh the judgment, and then must they be judged according to the holy judgment of God. And assuredly, as the Lord liveth, for the Lord God hath spoken it, and it is his eternal word, which cannot pass away, that they who are righteous shall be righteous still, and they who are filthy shall be filthy still; wherefore, they who are filthy are the devil and his angels; and they shall go away into everlasting fire; prepared for them; and their torment is as a lake of fire and brimstone, whose flame ascendeth up forever and ever and has no end.
	“O the greatness and the justice of our God!  For he executeth all his words, and they have gone forth out of his mouth, and his law must be fulfilled. But, behold, the righteous, the saints of the Holy One of Israel, they who have believed in the Holy One of Israel, they who have endured the crosses of the world, and despised the shame of it, they shall inherit the kingdom of God, which was prepared for them from the foundation of the world, and their joy shall be full forever. 	O the greatness of the mercy of our God, the Holy One of Israel!  For he delivereth his saints from that awful monster the devil, and death, and hell, and that lake of fire and brimstone, which is endless torment. O how great the holiness of our God!  For he knoweth all things, and there is not anything save he knows it. And he cometh into the world that he may save all men if they will hearken unto his voice; for behold, he suffereth the pains of all men, yea, the pains of every living creature, both men, women, and children, who belong to the family of Adam. And he suffereth this that the resurrection might pass upon all men, that all might stand before him at the great and judgment day. And he commandeth all men that they must repent, and be baptized in his name, having perfect faith in the Holy One of Israel, or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God. And if they will not repent and believe in his name, and be baptized in his name, and endure to the end, they must be damned; for the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, has spoken it.
	“Wherefore, he has given a law; and where there is no law given there is no punishment; and where there is no punishment there is no condemnation; and where there is no condemnation the mercies of the Holy One of Israel have claim upon them, because of the atonement; for they are delivered by the power of him. For the atonement satisfieth the demands of his justice upon all those who have not the law given to them, that they are delivered from that awful monster, death and hell, and the devil, and the lake of fire and brimstone, which is endless torment; and they are restored to that God who gave them breath, which is the Holy One of Israel. But wo unto him that has the law given, yea, that has all the commandments of God, like unto us, and that transgresseth them, and that wasteth the days of his probation, for awful is his state!
	“O that cunning plan of the evil one!  O the vainness, and the frailties, and the foolishness of men!  When they are learned they think they are wise, and they hearken not unto the counsel of God, for they set it aside, supposing they know of themselves, wherefore, their wisdom is foolishness and it profiteth them not. And they shall perish. But to be learned is good if they hearken unto the counsels of God. But wo unto the rich, who are rich as to the things of the world.  For because they are rich they despise the poor, and they persecute the meek, and their hearts are upon their treasures; wherefore, their treasure is their God.  And behold, their treasure shall perish with them also.
	“And wo unto the deaf that will not hear; for they shall perish. Wo unto the blind that will not see; for they shall perish also. Wo unto the uncircumcised of heart, for a knowledge of their iniquities shall smite them at the last day. Wo unto the liar, for he shall be thrust down to hell. Wo unto the murderer who deliberately killeth, for he shall die. Wo unto them who commit whoredoms, for they shall be thrust down to hell. Yea, wo unto those that worship idols, for the devil of all devils delighteth in them. And, in fine, wo unto all those who die in their sins; for they shall return to God, and behold his face, and remain in their sins.
	“O, my beloved brethren, remember the awfulness in transgressing against that Holy God, and also the awfulness of yielding to the enticings of that cunning one.  Remember, to be carnally-minded is death, and to be spiritually-minded is life eternal. O, my beloved brethren, give ear to my words.  Remember the greatness of the Holy One of Israel.  Do not say that I have spoken hard things against you; for if ye do, ye will revile against the truth; for I have spoken the words of your Maker.  I know that the words of truth are hard against all uncleanness; but the righteous fear them not, for they love the truth and are not shaken.
	“O then, my beloved brethren, come unto the Lord, the Holy One.  Remember that his paths are righteous.  Behold, the way for man is narrow, but it lieth in a straight course before him, and the keeper of the gate is the Holy One of Israel; and he employeth no servant there; and there is none other way save it be by the gate; for he cannot be deceived, for the Lord God is his name. And whoso knocketh, to him will he open; and the wise, and the learned, and they that are rich, who are puffed up because of their learning, and their wisdom, and their riches--yea, they are they whom he despiseth; and save they shall cast these things away, and consider themselves fools before God, and come down in the depths of humility, he will not open unto them. But the things of the wise and the prudent shall be hid from them forever--yea, that happiness which is prepared for the saints.
	“O, my beloved brethren, remember my words.  Behold, I take off my garments, and I shake them before you; I pray the God of my salvation that he view me with his all-searching eye; wherefore, ye shall know at the last day, when all men shall be judged of their works, that the God of Israel did witness that I shook your iniquities from my soul, and that I stand with brightness before him, and am rid of your blood.
	“O, my beloved brethren, turn away from your sins; shake off the chains of him that would bind you fast; come unto that God who is the rock of your salvation. Prepare your souls for that glorious day when justice shall be administered unto the righteous, even the day of judgment, that ye may not shrink with awful fear; that ye may not remember your awful guilt in perfectness, and be constrained to exclaim: Holy, holy are thy judgments, O Lord God Almighty--but I know my guilt; I transgressed thy law, and my transgressions are mine; and the devil hath obtained me, that I am a prey to his awful misery.
	“But behold, my brethren, is it expedient that I should awake you to an awful reality of these things?  Would I harrow up your souls if your minds were pure?  Would I be plain unto you according to the plainness of the truth if ye were freed from sin? Behold, if ye were holy I would speak unto you of holiness; but as ye are not holy, and ye look upon me as a teacher, it must needs be expedient that I teach you the consequences of sin. Behold, my soul abhorreth sin, and my heart delighteth in righteousness; and I will praise the holy name of my God.
	“Come, my brethren, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters; and he that hath no money, come buy and eat; yea, come buy wine and milk without money and without price. Wherefore, do not spend money for that which is of no worth, nor your labor for that which cannot satisfy.  Hearken diligently unto me, and remember the words which I have spoken; and come unto the Holy One of Israel, and feast upon that which perisheth not, neither can be corrupted, and let your soul delight in fatness.
	“Behold, my beloved brethren, remember the words of your God; pray unto him continually by day, and give thanks unto his holy name by night.  Let your hearts rejoice. And behold how great the covenants of the Lord, and how great his condescensions unto the children of men; and because of his greatness, and his grace and mercy, he has promised unto us that our seed shall not utterly be destroyed, according to the flesh, but that he would preserve them; and in future generations they shall become a righteous branch unto the house of Israel.
	“And now, my brethren, I would speak unto you more; but on the morrow I will declare unto you the remainder of my words.  Amen.”
* * * * * * *
	“And now I, Jacob, speak unto you again, my beloved brethren, concerning this righteous branch of which I have spoken. For behold, the promises which we have obtained are promises unto us according to the flesh; wherefore, as it has been shown unto me that many of our children shall perish in the flesh because of unbelief, nevertheless, God will be merciful unto many; and our children shall be restored, that they may come to that which will give them the true knowledge of their Redeemer.
	“Wherefore, as I said unto you, it must needs be expedient that Christ--for in the last night the angel spake unto me that this should be his name--should come among the Jews, among those who are the more wicked part of the world; and they shall crucify him--for thus it behooveth our God, and there is none other nation on earth that would crucify their God. For should the mighty miracles be wrought among other nations they would repent, and know that he be their God. But because of priestcrafts and iniquities, they at Jerusalem will stiffen their necks against him, that he be crucified.
	“Wherefore, because of their iniquities, destructions, famines, pestilences, and bloodshed shall come upon them; and they who shall not be destroyed shall be scattered among all nations. But behold, thus saith the Lord God, ‘When the day cometh that they shall believe in me, that I am Christ, then have I covenanted with their fathers that they shall be restored in the flesh, upon the earth, unto the lands of their inheritance. And it shall come to pass that they shall be gathered in from their long dispersion, from the isles of the sea, and from the four parts of the earth; and the nations of the Gentiles shall be great in the eyes of me,’ saith God, ‘in carrying them forth to the lands of their inheritance. Yea, the kings of the Gentiles shall be nursing fathers unto them, and their queens shall become nursing mothers,’ wherefore, the promises of the Lord are great unto the Gentiles, for he hath spoken it, and who can dispute? ‘But behold, this land,’ said God, ‘shall be a land of thine inheritance, and the Gentiles shall be blessed upon the land. And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon the land, who shall raise up unto the Gentiles. And I will fortify this land against all other nations. And he that fighteth against Zion shall perish,’ saith God.
	“’For he that raiseth up a king against me shall perish, for I, the Lord, the king of heaven, will be their king, and I will be a light unto them forever, that hear my words. Wherefore, for this cause, that my covenants may be fulfilled which I have made unto the children of men, that I will do unto them while they are in the flesh, I must needs destroy the secret works of darkness, and of murders, and of abominations. Wherefore, he that fighteth against Zion, both Jew and Gentile, both bond and free, both male and female, shall perish; for they are they who are the whore of all the earth; for they who are not for me are against me,’ saith our God. ‘For I will fulfil my promises which I have made unto the children of men, that I will do unto them while they are in the flesh.’
	“Wherefore, my beloved brethren, thus saith our God, ‘I will afflict thy seed by the hand of the Gentiles; nevertheless, I will soften the hearts of the Gentiles, that they shall be like unto a father to them; wherefore, the Gentiles shall be blessed and numbered among the house of Israel. Wherefore, I will consecrate this land unto thy seed, and them who shall be numbered among thy seed, forever, for the land of their inheritance; for it is a choice land, saith God unto me, above all other lands, wherefore I will have all men that dwell thereon that they shall worship me’ saith God.
	“And now, my beloved brethren, seeing that our merciful God has given us so great knowledge concerning these things, let us remember him, and lay aside our sins, and not hang down our heads, for we are not cast off; nevertheless, we have been driven out of the land of our inheritance; but we have been led to a better land, for the Lord has made the sea our path, and we are upon an isle of the sea. But great are the promises of the Lord unto them who are upon the isles of the sea; wherefore as it says isles, there must needs be more than this, and they are inhabited also by our brethren. For behold, the Lord God has led away from time to time from the house of Israel, according to his will and pleasure.  And now behold, the Lord remembereth all them who have been broken off, wherefore he remembereth us also. Therefore, cheer up your hearts, and remember that ye are free to act for yourselves--to choose the way of everlasting death or the way of eternal life.
	“Wherefore, my beloved brethren, reconcile yourselves to the will of God, and not to the will of the devil and the flesh; and remember, after ye are reconciled unto God, that it is only in and through the grace of God that ye are saved. Wherefore, may God raise you from death by the power of the resurrection, and also from everlasting death by the power of the atonement, that ye may be received into the eternal kingdom of God, that ye may praise him through grace divine.  Amen.”
	And now, Jacob spake many more things to my people at that time; nevertheless only these things have I caused to be written, for the things which I have written sufficeth me. And now I, Nephi, write more of the words of Isaiah, for my soul delighteth in his words.  For I will liken his words unto my people, and I will send them forth unto all my children, for he verily saw my Redeemer, even as I have seen him. And my brother, Jacob, also has seen him as I have seen him; wherefore, I will send their words forth unto my children to prove unto them that my words are true.  Wherefore, by the words of three, God hath said, “I will establish my word.”  Nevertheless, God sendeth more witnesses, and he proveth all his words.
	Behold, my soul delighteth in proving unto my people the truth of the coming of Christ; for, for this end hath the law of Moses been given; and all things which have been given of God from the beginning of the world, unto man, are the typifying of him. And also my soul delighteth in the covenants of the Lord which he hath made to our fathers; yea, my soul delighteth in his grace, and in his justice, and power, and mercy in the great and eternal plan of deliverance from death. And my soul delighteth in proving unto my people that save Christ should come all men must perish. For if there be no Christ there be no God; and if there be no God we are not, for there could have been no creation.  But there is a God, and he is Christ, and he cometh in the fulness of his own time.
	And now I write some of the words of Isaiah, that whoso of my people shall see these words may lift up their hearts and rejoice for all men.  Now these are the words, and ye may liken them unto you and unto all men.
[c
	The word that Isaiah, the son of Amoz, saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem: And it shall come to pass in the last days, when the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it. And many people shall go and say, “Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.”
]
 	Now I, Nephi, do speak somewhat concerning the words which I have written, which have been spoken by the mouth of Isaiah.  For behold, Isaiah spake many things which were hard for many of my people to understand; for they know not concerning the manner of prophesying among the Jews. For I, Nephi, have not taught them many things concerning the manner of the Jews; for their works were works of darkness, and their doings were doings of abominations. Wherefore, I write unto my people, unto all those that shall receive hereafter these things which I write, that they may know the judgments of God, that they come upon all nations, according to the word which he hath spoken.
	Wherefore, hearken, O my people, which are of the house of Israel, and give ear unto my words; for because the words of Isaiah are not plain unto you, nevertheless they are plain unto all those that are filled with the spirit of prophecy.  But I give unto you a prophecy, according to the spirit which is in me; wherefore I shall prophesy according to the plainness which hath been with me from the time that I came out from Jerusalem with my father; for behold, my soul delighteth in plainness unto my people, that they may learn. Yea, and my soul delighteth in the words of Isaiah, for I came out from Jerusalem, and mine eyes hath beheld the things of the Jews, and I know that the Jews do understand the things of the prophets, and there is none other people that understand the things which were spoken unto the Jews like unto them, save it be that they are taught after the manner of the things of the Jews.
	But behold, I, Nephi, have not taught my children after the manner of the Jews; but behold, I, of myself, have dwelt at Jerusalem, wherefore I know concerning the regions round about; and I have made mention unto my children concerning the judgments of God, which hath come to pass among the Jews, unto my children, according to all that which Isaiah hath spoken, and I do not write them. But behold, I proceed with mine own prophecy, according to my plainness; in the which I know that no man can err; nevertheless, in the days that the prophecies of Isaiah shall be fulfilled men shall know of a surety, at the times when they shall come to pass.
	Wherefore, they are of worth unto the children of men, and he that supposeth that they are not, unto them will I speak particularly, and confine the words unto mine own people; for I know that they shall be of great worth unto them in the last days; for in that day shall they understand them; wherefore, for their good have I written them. And as one generation hath been destroyed among the Jews because of iniquity, even so have they been destroyed from generation to generation according to their iniquities; and never hath any of them been destroyed save it were foretold them by the prophets of the Lord.
	Wherefore, it hath been told them concerning the destruction which should come upon them, immediately after my father left Jerusalem; nevertheless, they hardened their hearts; and according to my prophecy they have been destroyed, save it be those which are carried away captive into Babylon. And now this I speak because of the spirit which is in me.  And notwithstanding they have been carried away they shall return again, and possess the land of Jerusalem; wherefore, they shall be restored again to the land of their inheritance.
	But, behold, they shall have wars, and rumors of wars; and when the day cometh that the Only Begotten of the Father, yea, even the Father of heaven and of earth, shall manifest himself unto them in the flesh, behold, they will reject him, because of their iniquities, and the hardness of their hearts, and the stiffness of their necks. Behold, they will crucify him; and after he is laid in a sepulchre for the space of three days he shall rise from the dead, with healing in his wings; and all those who shall believe on his name shall be saved in the kingdom of God.  Wherefore, my soul delighteth to prophesy concerning him, for I have seen his day, and my heart doth magnify his holy name.
	And behold it shall come to pass that after the Messiah hath risen from the dead, and hath manifested himself unto his people, unto as many as will believe on his name, behold, Jerusalem shall be destroyed again; for wo unto them that fight against God and the people of his church. Wherefore, the Jews shall be scattered among all nations; yea, and also Babylon shall be destroyed; wherefore, the Jews shall be scattered by other nations.
	And after they have been scattered, and the Lord God hath scourged them by other nations for the space of many generations, yea, even down from generation to generation until they shall be persuaded to believe in Christ, the Son of God, and the atonement, which is infinite for all mankind--and when that day shall come that they shall believe in Christ, and worship the Father in his name, with pure hearts and clean hands, and look not forward any more for another Messiah, then, at that time, the day will come that it must needs be expedient that they should believe these things. And the Lord will set his hand again the second time to restore his people from their lost and fallen state.  Wherefore, he will proceed to do a marvelous work and a wonder among the children of men.
	Wherefore, he shall bring forth his words unto them, which words shall judge them at the last day, for they shall be given them for the purpose of convincing them of the true Messiah, who was rejected by them; and unto the convincing of them that they need not look forward any more for a Messiah to come, for there should not any come, save it should be a false Messiah which should deceive the people; for there is save one Messiah spoken of by the prophets, and that Messiah is he who should be rejected of the Jews. For according to the words of the prophets, the Messiah cometh in six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem; and according to the words of the prophets, and also the word of the angel of God, his name shall be Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
	And now, my brethren, I have spoken plainly that ye cannot err.  And as the Lord God liveth that brought Israel up out of the land of Egypt, and gave unto Moses power that he should heal the nations after they had been bitten by the poisonous serpents, if they would cast their eyes unto the serpent which he did raise up before them, and also gave him power that he should smite the rock and the water should come forth; yea, behold I say unto you, that as these things are true, and as the Lord God liveth, there is none other name given under heaven save it be this Jesus Christ, of which I have spoken, whereby man can be saved. Wherefore, for this cause hath the Lord God promised unto me that these things which I write shall be kept and preserved, and handed down unto my seed, from generation to generation, that the promise may be fulfilled unto Joseph, that his seed should never perish as long as the earth should stand. Wherefore, these things shall go from generation to generation as long as the earth shall stand; and they shall go according to the will and pleasure of God; and the nations who shall possess them shall be judged of them according to the words which are written.
	For we labor diligently to write, to persuade our children, and also our brethren, to believe in Christ, and to be reconciled to God; for we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after all we can do. And, notwithstanding we believe in Christ, we keep the law of Moses, and look forward with steadfastness unto Christ, until the law shall be fulfilled. For, for this end was the law given; wherefore the law hath become dead unto us, and we are made alive in Christ because of our faith; yet we keep the law because of the commandments. And we talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, we prophesy of Christ, and we write according to our prophecies, that our children may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins.
	Wherefore, we speak concerning the law that our children may know the deadness of the law; and they, by knowing the deadness of the law, may look forward unto that life which is in Christ, and know for what end the law was given.  And after the law is fulfilled in Christ, that they need not harden their hearts against him when the law ought to be done away.
	And now behold, my people, ye are a stiffnecked people; wherefore, I have spoken plainly unto you, that ye cannot misunderstand.  And the words which I have spoken shall stand as a testimony against you; for they are sufficient to teach any man the right way; for the right way is to believe in Christ and deny him not; for by denying him ye also deny the prophets and the law. And now behold, I say unto you that the right way is to believe in Christ, and deny him not; and Christ is the Holy One of Israel; wherefore ye must bow down before him, and worship him with all your might, mind, and strength, and your whole soul; and if ye do this ye shall in nowise be cast out. And, inasmuch as it shall be expedient, ye must keep the performances and ordinances of God until the law shall be fulfilled which was given unto Moses.

 1 And after Christ shall have risen from the dead he shall show
himself unto you, my children, and my beloved brethren; and the
words which he shall speak unto you shall be the law which ye
shall do.

 2 For behold, I say unto you that I have beheld that many
generations shall pass away, and there shall be great wars and
contentions among my people.

 3 And after the Messiah shall come there shall be signs given
unto my people of his birth, and also of his death and
resurrection; and great and terrible shall that day be unto the
wicked, for they shall perish; and they perish because they cast
out the prophets, and the saints, and stone them, and slay them;
wherefore the cry of the blood of the saints shall ascend up to
God from the ground against them.

 4 Wherefore, all those who are proud, and that do wickedly, the
day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, for
they shall be as stubble.

 5 And they that kill the prophets, and the saints, the depths of
the earth shall swallow them up, saith the Lord of Hosts; and
mountains shall cover them, and whirlwinds shall carry them away,
and buildings shall fall upon them and crush them to pieces and
grind them to powder.

 6 And they shall be visited with thunderings, and lightnings,
and earthquakes, and all manner of destructions, for the fire of
the anger of the Lord shall be kindled against them, and they
shall be as stubble, and the day that cometh shall consume them,
saith the Lord of Hosts.

 7 O the pain, and the anguish of my soul for the loss of the
slain of my people!  For I, Nephi, have seen it, and it well nigh
consumeth me before the presence of the Lord; but I must cry unto
my God: Thy ways are just.

 8 But behold, the righteous that hearken unto the words of the
prophets, and destroy them not, but look forward unto Christ with
steadfastness for the signs which are given, notwithstanding all
persecution--behold, they are they which shall not perish.

 9 But the Son of righteousness shall appear unto them; and he
shall heal them, and they shall have peace with him, until three
generations shall have passed away, and many of the fourth
generation shall have passed away in righteousness.

 10 And when these things have passed away a speedy destruction
cometh unto my people; for, notwithstanding the pains of my soul,
I have seen it; wherefore, I know that it shall come to pass; and
they sell themselves for naught; for, for the reward of their
pride and their foolishness they shall reap destruction; for
because they yield unto the devil and choose works of darkness
rather than light, therefore they must go down to hell.

 11 For the Spirit of the Lord will not always strive with man. 
And when the Spirit ceaseth to strive with man then cometh speedy
destruction, and this grieveth my soul.

 12 And as I spake concerning the convincing of the Jews, that
Jesus is the very Christ, it must needs be that the Gentiles be
convinced also that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God;

 13 And that he manifesteth himself unto all those who believe in
him, by the power of the Holy Ghost; yea, unto every nation,
kindred, tongue, and people, working mighty miracles, signs, and
wonders, among the children of men according to their faith.

 14 But behold, I prophesy unto you concerning the last days;
concerning the days when the Lord God shall bring these things
forth unto the children of men.

 15 After my seed and the seed of my brethren shall have dwindled
in unbelief, and shall have been smitten by the Gentiles; yea,
after the Lord God shall have camped against them round about,
and shall have laid siege against them with a mount, and raised
forts against them; and after they shall have been brought down
low in the dust, even that they are not, yet the words of the
righteous shall be written, and the prayers of the faithful shall
be heard, and all those who have dwindled in unbelief shall not
be forgotten.

 16 For those who shall be destroyed shall speak unto them out of
the ground, and their speech shall be low out of the dust, and
their voice shall be as one that hath a familiar spirit; for the
Lord God will give unto him power, that he may whisper concerning
them, even as it were out of the ground; and their speech shall
whisper out of the dust.

 17 For thus saith the Lord God: They shall write the things
which shall be done among them, and they shall be written and
sealed up in a book, and those who have dwindled in unbelief
shall not have them, for they seek to destroy the things of God.

 18 Wherefore, as those who have been destroyed have been
destroyed speedily; and the multitude of their terrible ones
shall be as chaff that passeth away--yea, thus saith the Lord
God: It shall be at an instant, suddenly--

 19 And it shall come to pass, that those who have dwindled in
unbelief shall be smitten by the hand of the Gentiles.

 20 And the Gentiles are lifted up in the pride of their eyes,
and have stumbled, because of the greatness of their stumbling
block, that they have built up many churches; nevertheless, they
put down the power and miracles of God, and preach up unto
themselves their own wisdom and their own learning, that they may
get gain and grind upon the face of the poor.

 21 And there are many churches built up which cause envyings,
and strifes, and malice.

 22 And there are also secret combinations, even as in times of
old, according to the combinations of the devil, for he is the
founder of all these things; yea, the founder of murder, and
works of darkness; yea, and he leadeth them by the neck with a
flaxen cord, until he bindeth them with his strong cords forever.

 23 For behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you that the Lord
God worketh not in darkness.

 24 He doeth not anything save it be for the benefit of the
world; for he loveth the world, even that he layeth down his own
life that he may draw all men unto him.  Wherefore, he commandeth
none that they shall not partake of his salvation.

 25 Behold, doth he cry unto any, saying: Depart from me? 
Behold, I say unto you, Nay; but he saith: Come unto me all ye
ends of the earth, buy milk and honey, without money and without
price.

 26 Behold, hath he commanded any that they should depart out of
the synagogues, or out of the houses of worship?  Behold, I say
unto you, Nay.

 27 Hath he commanded any that they should not partake of his
salvation?  Behold I say unto you, Nay; but he hath given it free
for all men; and he hath commanded his people that they should
persuade all men to repentance.

 28 Behold, hath the Lord commanded any that they should not
partake of his goodness?  Behold I say unto you, Nay; but all men
are privileged the one like unto the other, and none are
forbidden.

 29 He commandeth that there shall be no priestcrafts; for,
behold priestcrafts are that men preach and set themselves up for
a light unto the world, that they may get gain and praise of the
world; but they seek not the welfare of Zion.

 30 Behold, the Lord hath forbidden this thing; wherefore, the
Lord God hath given a commandment that all men should have
charity, which charity is love, and except they should have
charity they were nothing.  Wherefore, if they should have
charity they would not suffer the laborer in Zion to perish.

 31 But the laborer in Zion shall labor for Zion; for if they
labor for money they shall perish.

 32 And again, the Lord God hath commanded that men should not
murder; that they should not lie; that they should not steal;
that they should not take the name of the Lord their God in vain;
that they should not envy; that they should not have malice; that
they should not contend one with another; that they should not
commit whoredoms; and that they should do none of these things;
for whoso doeth them shall perish.

 33 For none of these iniquities come of the Lord; for he doeth
that which is good among the children of men; and he doeth
nothing save it be plain unto the children of men; and he
inviteth them all to come unto him and partake of his goodness;
and he denieth none that come unto him, black and white, bond and
free, male and female; and he remembereth the heathen; and all
are alike unto God, both Jew and Gentile.

Chapter 27

 1 But, behold, in the last days, or in the days of the
Gentiles--yea, behold all the nations of the Gentiles and also
the Jews, both those who shall come upon this land and those who
shall be upon other lands, yea, even upon all the lands of the
earth, behold, they will be drunken with iniquity and all manner
of abominations--

 2 And when that day shall come they shall be visited of the Lord
of Hosts, with thunder and with earthquake, and with a great
noise, and with storm, and with tempest, and with the flame of
devouring fire.

 3 And all the nations that fight against Zion, and that distress
her, shall be as a dream of a night vision; yea, it shall be unto
them, even as unto a hungry man which dreameth, and behold he
eateth but he awaketh and his soul is empty; or like unto a
thirsty man which dreameth, and behold he drinketh but he awaketh
and behold he is faint, and his soul hath appetite; yea, even so
shall the multitude of all the nations be that fight against
Mount Zion.

 4 For behold, all ye that doeth iniquity, stay yourselves and
wonder, for ye shall cry out, and cry; yea, ye shall be drunken
but not with wine, ye shall stagger but not with strong drink.

 5 For behold, the Lord hath poured out upon you the spirit of
deep sleep.  For behold, ye have closed your eyes, and ye have
rejected the prophets; and your rulers, and the seers hath he
covered because of your iniquity.

 6 And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall bring forth
unto you the words of a book, and they shall be the words of them
which have slumbered.

 7 And behold the book shall be sealed; and in the book shall be
a revelation from God, from the beginning of the world to the
ending thereof.

 8 Wherefore, because of the things which are sealed up, the
things which are sealed shall not be delivered in the day of the
wickedness and abominations of the people.  Wherefore the book
shall be kept from them.

 9 But the book shall be delivered unto a man, and he shall
deliver the words of the book, which are the words of those who
have slumbered in the dust, and he shall deliver these words unto
another;

 10 But the words which are sealed he shall not deliver, neither
shall he deliver the book.  For the book shall be sealed by the
power of God, and the revelation which was sealed shall be kept
in the book until the own due time of the Lord, that they may
come forth; for behold, they reveal all things from the
foundation of the world unto the end thereof.

 11 And the day cometh that the words of the book which were
sealed shall be read upon the house tops; and they shall be read
by the power of Christ; and all things shall be revealed unto the
children of men which ever have been among the children of men,
and which ever will be even unto the end of the earth.

 12 Wherefore, at that day when the book shall be delivered unto
the man of whom I have spoken, the book shall be hid from the
eyes of the world, that the eyes of none shall behold it save it
be that three witnesses shall behold it, by the power of God,
besides him to whom the book shall be delivered; and they shall
testify to the truth of the book and the things therein.

 13 And there is none other which shall view it, save it be a few
according to the will of God, to bear testimony of his word unto
the children of men; for the Lord God hath said that the words of
the faithful should speak as if it were from the dead.

 14 Wherefore, the Lord God will proceed to bring forth the words
of the book; and in the mouth of as many witnesses as seemeth him
good will he establish his word; and wo be unto him that
rejecteth the word of God!

 15 But behold, it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall say
unto him to whom he shall deliver the book: Take these words
which are not sealed and deliver them to another, that he may
show them unto the learned, saying: Read this, I pray thee.  And
the learned shall say: Bring hither the book, and I will read
them.

 16 And now, because of the glory of the world and to get gain
will they say this, and not for the glory of God.

 17 And the man shall say: I cannot bring the book, for it is
sealed.

 18 Then shall the learned say: I cannot read it.

 19 Wherefore it shall come to pass, that the Lord God will
deliver again the book and the words thereof to him that is not
learned; and the man that is not learned shall say: I am not
learned.

 20 Then shall the Lord God say unto him: The learned shall not
read them, for they have rejected them, and I am able to do mine
own work; wherefore thou shalt read the words which I shall give
unto thee.

 21 Touch not the things which are sealed, for I will bring them
forth in mine own due time; for I will show unto the children of
men that I am able to do mine own work.

 22 Wherefore, when thou hast read the words which I have
commanded thee, and obtained the witnesses which I have promised
unto thee, then shalt thou seal up the book again, and hide it up
unto me, that I may preserve the words which thou hast not read,
until I shall see fit in mine own wisdom to reveal all things
unto the children of men.

 23 For behold, I am God; and I am a God of miracles; and I will
show unto the world that I am the same yesterday, today, and
forever; and I work not among the children of men save it be
according to their faith.

 24 And again it shall come to pass that the Lord shall say unto
him that shall read the words that shall be delivered him:

 25 Forasmuch as this people draw near unto me with their mouth,
and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their hearts
far from me, and their fear towards me is taught by the precepts
of men--

 26 Therefore, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this
people, yea, a marvelous work and a wonder, for the wisdom of
their wise and learned shall perish, and the understanding of
their prudent shall be hid.

 27 And wo unto them that seek deep to hide their counsel from
the Lord!  And their works are in the dark; and they say: Who
seeth us, and who knoweth us?  And they also say: Surely, your
turning of things upside down shall be esteemed as the potter's
clay.  But behold, I will show unto them, saith the Lord of
Hosts, that I know all their works.  For shall the work say of
him that made it, he made me not?  Or shall the thing framed say
of him that framed it, he had no understanding?

 28 But behold, saith the Lord of Hosts: I will show unto the
children of men that it is yet a very little while and Lebanon
shall be turned into a fruitful field; and the fruitful field
shall be esteemed as a forest.

 29 And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book,
and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and out of
darkness.

 30 And the meek also shall increase, and their joy shall be in
the Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of
Israel.

 31 For assuredly as the Lord liveth they shall see that the
terrible one is brought to naught, and the scorner is consumed,
and all that watch for iniquity are cut off;

 32 And they that make a man an offender for a word, and lay a
snare for him that reproveth in the gate, and turn aside the just
for a thing of naught.

 33 Therefore, thus saith the Lord, who redeemed Abraham,
concerning the house of Jacob: Jacob shall not now be ashamed,
neither shall his face now wax pale.

 34 But when he seeth his children, the work of my hands, in the
midst of him, they shall sanctify my name, and sanctify the Holy
One of Jacob, and shall fear the God of Israel.

 35 They also that erred in spirit shall come to understanding,
and they that murmured shall learn doctrine.

Chapter 28

 1 And now, behold, my brethren, I have spoken unto you,
according as the Spirit hath constrained me; wherefore, I know
that they must surely come to pass.

 2 And the things which shall be written out of the book shall be
of great worth unto the children of men, and especially unto our
seed, which is a remnant of the house of Israel.

 3 For it shall come to pass in that day that the churches which
are built up, and not unto the Lord, when the one shall say unto
the other: Behold, I, I am the Lord's; and the others shall say:
I, I am the Lord's; and thus shall every one say that hath built
up churches, and not unto the Lord--

 4 And they shall contend one with another; and their priests
shall contend one with another, and they shall teach with their
learning, and deny the Holy Ghost, which giveth utterance.

 5 And they deny the power of God, the Holy One of Israel; and
they say unto the people: Hearken unto us, and hear ye our
precept; for behold there is no God today, for the Lord and the
Redeemer hath done his work, and he hath given his power unto
men;

 6 Behold, hearken ye unto my precept; if they shall say there is
a miracle wrought by the hand of the Lord, believe it not; for
this day he is not a God of miracles; he hath done his work.

 7 Yea, and there shall be many which shall say: Eat, drink, and
be merry, for tomorrow we die; and it shall be well with us.

 8 And there shall also be many which shall say: Eat, drink, and
be merry; nevertheless, fear God--he will justify in committing a
little sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because
of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in
this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so
be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and
at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God.

 9 Yea, and there shall be many which shall teach after this
manner, false and vain and foolish doctrines, and shall be puffed
up in their hearts, and shall seek deep to hide their counsels
from the Lord; and their works shall be in the dark.

 10 And the blood of the saints shall cry from the ground against
them.

 11 Yea, they have all gone out of the way; they have become
corrupted.

 12 Because of pride, and because of false teachers, and false
doctrine, their churches have become corrupted, and their
churches are lifted up; because of pride they are puffed up.

 13 They rob the poor because of their fine sanctuaries; they rob
the poor because of their fine clothing; and they persecute the
meek and the poor in heart, because in their pride they are
puffed up.

 14 They wear stiff necks and high heads; yea, and because of
pride, and wickedness, and abominations, and whoredoms, they have
all gone astray save it be a few, who are the humble followers of
Christ; nevertheless, they are led, that in many instances they
do err because they are taught by the precepts of men.

 15 O the wise, and the learned, and the rich, that are puffed up
in the pride of their hearts, and all those who preach false
doctrines, and all those who commit whoredoms, and pervert the
right way of the Lord, wo, wo, wo be unto them, saith the Lord
God Almighty, for they shall be thrust down to hell!

 16 Wo unto them that turn aside the just for a thing of naught
and revile against that which is good, and say that is of no
worth!  For the day shall come that the Lord God will speedily
visit the inhabitants of the earth; and in that day that they are
fully ripe in iniquity they shall perish.

 17 But behold, if the inhabitants of the earth shall repent of
their wickedness and abominations they shall not be destroyed,
saith the Lord of Hosts.

 18 But behold, that great and abominable church, the whore of
all the earth, must tumble to the earth, and great must be the
fall thereof.

 19 For the kingdom of the devil must shake, and they which
belong to it must needs be stirred up unto repentance, or the
devil will grasp them with his everlasting chains, and they be
stirred up to anger, and perish;

 20 For behold, at that day shall he rage in the hearts of the
children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is
good.

 21 And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal
security, that they will say: All is well in Zion; yea, Zion
prospereth, all is well--and thus the devil cheateth their souls,
and leadeth them away carefully down to hell.

 22 And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there
is no hell; and he saith unto them: I am no devil, for there is
none--and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them
with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance.

 23 Yea, they are grasped with death, and hell; and death, and
hell, and the devil, and all that have been seized therewith must
stand before the throne of God, and be judged according to their
works, from whence they must go into the place prepared for them,
even a lake of fire and brimstone, which is endless torment.

 24 Therefore, wo be unto him that is at ease in Zion!

 25 Wo be unto him that crieth: All is well!

 26 Yea, wo be unto him that hearkeneth unto the precepts of men,
and denieth the power of God, and the gift of the Holy Ghost!

 27 Yea, wo be unto him that saith: We have received, and we need
no more!

 28 And in fine, wo unto all those who tremble, and are angry
because of the truth of God!  For behold, he that is built upon
the rock receiveth it with gladness; and he that is built upon a
sandy foundation trembleth lest he shall fall.

 29 Wo be unto him that shall say: We have received the word of
God, and we need no more of the word of God, for we have enough!

 30 For behold, thus saith the Lord God: I will give unto the
children of men line upon line, precept upon precept, here a
little and there a little; and blessed are those who hearken unto
my precepts, and lend an ear unto my counsel, for they shall
learn wisdom; for unto him that receiveth I will give more; and
from them that shall say, We have enough, from them shall be
taken away even that which they have.

 31 Cursed is he that putteth his trust in man, or maketh flesh
his arm, or shall hearken unto the precepts of men, save their
precepts shall be given by the power of the Holy Ghost.

 32 Wo be unto the Gentiles, saith the Lord God of Hosts!  For
notwithstanding I shall lengthen out mine arm unto them from day
to day, they will deny me; nevertheless, I will be merciful unto
them, saith the Lord God, if they will repent and come unto me;
for mine arm is lengthened out all the day long, saith the Lord
God of Hosts.

Chapter 29

 1 But behold, there shall be many--at that day when I shall
proceed to do a marvelous work among them, that I may remember my
covenants which I have made unto the children of men, that I may
set my hand again the second time to recover my people, which are
of the house of Israel;

 2 And also, that I may remember the promises which I have made
unto thee, Nephi, and also unto thy father, that I would remember
your seed; and that the words of your seed should proceed forth
out of my mouth unto your seed; and my words shall hiss forth
unto the ends of the earth, for a standard unto my people, which
are of the house of Israel;

 3 And because my words shall hiss forth--many of the Gentiles
shall say: A Bible!  A Bible!  We have got a Bible, and there
cannot be any more Bible.

 4 But thus saith the Lord God: O fools, they shall have a Bible;
and it shall proceed forth from the Jews, mine ancient covenant
people.  And what thank they the Jews for the Bible which they
receive from them?  Yea, what do the Gentiles mean?  Do they
remember the travails, and the labors, and the pains of the Jews,
and their diligence unto me, in bringing forth salvation unto the
Gentiles?

 5 O ye Gentiles, have ye remembered the Jews, mine ancient
covenant people?  Nay; but ye have cursed them, and have hated
them, and have not sought to recover them.  But behold, I will
return all these things upon your own heads; for I the Lord have
not forgotten my people.

 6 Thou fool, that shall say: A Bible, we have got a Bible, and
we need no more Bible.  Have ye obtained a Bible save it were by
the Jews?

 7 Know ye not that there are more nations than one?  Know ye not
that I, the Lord your God, have created all men, and that I
remember those who are upon the isles of the sea; and that I rule
in the heavens above and in the earth beneath; and I bring forth
my word unto the children of men, yea, even upon all the nations
of the earth?

 8 Wherefore murmur ye, because that ye shall receive more of my
word?  Know ye not that the testimony of two nations is a witness
unto you that I am God, that I remember one nation like unto
another?  Wherefore, I speak the same words unto one nation like
unto another.  And when the two nations shall run together the
testimony of the two nations shall run together also.

 9 And I do this that I may prove unto many that I am the same
yesterday, today, and forever; and that I speak forth my words
according to mine own pleasure.  And because that I have spoken
one word ye need not suppose that I cannot speak another; for my
work is not yet finished; neither shall it be until the end of
man, neither from that time henceforth and forever.

 10 Wherefore, because that ye have a Bible ye need not suppose
that it contains all my words; neither need ye suppose that I
have not caused more to be written.

 11 For I command all men, both in the east and in the west, and
in the north, and in the south, and in the islands of the sea,
that they shall write the words which I speak unto them; for out
of the books which shall be written I will judge the world, every
man according to their works, according to that which is written.

 12 For behold, I shall speak unto the Jews and they shall write
it; and I shall also speak unto the Nephites and they shall write
it; and I shall also speak unto the other tribes of the house of
Israel, which I have led away, and they shall write it; and I
shall also speak unto all nations of the earth and they shall
write it.

 13 And it shall come to pass that the Jews shall have the words
of the Nephites, and the Nephites shall have the words of the
Jews; and the Nephites and the Jews shall have the words of the
lost tribes of Israel; and the lost tribes of Israel shall have
the words of the Nephites and the Jews.

 14 And it shall come to pass that my people, which are of the
house of Israel, shall be gathered home unto the lands of their
possessions; and my word also shall be gathered in one.  And I
will show unto them that fight against my word and against my
people, who are of the house of Israel, that I am God, and that I
covenanted with Abraham that I would remember his seed forever.

Chapter 30

 1 And now behold, my beloved brethren, I would speak unto you;
for I, Nephi, would not suffer that ye should suppose that ye are
more righteous than the Gentiles shall be.  For behold, except ye
shall keep the commandments of God ye shall all likewise perish;
and because of the words which have been spoken ye need not
suppose that the Gentiles are utterly destroyed.

 2 For behold, I say unto you that as many of the Gentiles as
will repent are the covenant people of the Lord; and as many of
the Jews as will not repent shall be cast off; for the Lord
covenanteth with none save it be with them that repent and
believe in his Son, who is the Holy One of Israel.

 3 And now, I would prophesy somewhat more concerning the Jews
and the Gentiles.  For after the book of which I have spoken
shall come forth, and be written unto the Gentiles, and sealed up
again unto the Lord, there shall be many which shall believe the
words which are written; and they shall carry them forth unto the
remnant of our seed.

 4 And then shall the remnant of our seed know concerning us, how
that we came out from Jerusalem, and that they are descendants of
the Jews.

 5 And the gospel of Jesus Christ shall be declared among them;
wherefore, they shall be restored unto the knowledge of their
fathers, and also to the knowledge of Jesus Christ, which was had
among their fathers.

 6 And then shall they rejoice; for they shall know that it is a
blessing unto them from the hand of God; and their scales of
darkness shall begin to fall from their eyes; and many
generations shall not pass away among them, save they shall be a
pure and delightsome people.

 7 And it shall come to pass that the Jews which are scattered
also shall begin to believe in Christ; and they shall begin to
gather in upon the face of the land; and as many as shall believe
in Christ shall also become a delightsome people.

 8 And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall commence his
work among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, to bring
about the restoration of his people upon the earth.

 9 And with righteousness shall the Lord God judge the poor, and
reprove with equity for the meek of the earth.  And he shall
smite the earth with the rod of his mouth; and with the breath of
his lips shall he slay the wicked.

 10 For the time speedily cometh that the Lord God shall cause a
great division among the people, and the wicked will he destroy;
and he will spare his people, yea, even if it so be that he must
destroy the wicked by fire.

 11 And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and
faithfulness the girdle of his reins.

 12 And then shall the wolf dwell with the lamb; and the leopard
shall lie down with the kid, and the calf, and the young lion,
and the fatling, together; and a little child shall lead them.

 13 And the cow and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall
lie down together; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.

 14 And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and
the weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice's den.

 15 They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain; for
the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the
waters cover the sea.

 16 Wherefore, the things of all nations shall be made known;
yea, all things shall be made known unto the children of men.

 17 There is nothing which is secret save it shall be revealed;
there is no work of darkness save it shall be made manifest in
the light; and there is nothing which is sealed upon the earth
save it shall be loosed.

 18 Wherefore, all things which have been revealed unto the
children of men shall at that day be revealed; and Satan shall
have power over the hearts of the children of men no more, for a
long time.  And now, my beloved brethren, I make an end of my
sayings.

Chapter 31

 1 And now I, Nephi, make an end of my prophesying unto you, my
beloved brethren.  And I cannot write but a few things, which I
know must surely come to pass; neither can I write but a few of
the words of my brother Jacob.

 2 Wherefore, the things which I have written sufficeth me, save
it be a few words which I must speak concerning the doctrine of
Christ; wherefore, I shall speak unto you plainly, according to
the plainness of my prophesying.

 3 For my soul delighteth in plainness; for after this manner
doth the Lord God work among the children of men.  For the Lord
God giveth light unto the understanding; for he speaketh unto men
according to their language, unto their understanding.

 4 Wherefore, I would that ye should remember that I have spoken
unto you concerning that prophet which the Lord showed unto me,
that should baptize the Lamb of God, which should take away the
sins of the world.

 5 And now, if the Lamb of God, he being holy, should have need
to be baptized by water, to fulfil all righteousness, O then, how
much more need have we, being unholy, to be baptized, yea, even
by water!

 6 And now, I would ask of you, my beloved brethren, wherein the
Lamb of God did fulfil all righteousness in being baptized by
water?

 7 Know ye not that he was holy?  But notwithstanding he being
holy, he showeth unto the children of men that, according to the
flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesseth unto
the Father that he would be obedient unto him in keeping his
commandments.

 8 Wherefore, after he was baptized with water the Holy Ghost
descended upon him in the form of a dove.

 9 And again, it showeth unto the children of men the
straightness of the path, and the narrowness of the gate, by
which they should enter, he having set the example before them.

 10 And he said unto the children of men: Follow thou me. 
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, can we follow Jesus save we shall
be willing to keep the commandments of the Father?

 11 And the Father said: Repent ye, repent ye, and be baptized in
the name of my Beloved Son.

 12 And also, the voice of the Son came unto me, saying: He that
is baptized in my name, to him will the Father give the Holy
Ghost, like unto me; wherefore, follow me, and do the things
which ye have seen me do.

 13 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, I know that if ye shall
follow the Son, with full purpose of heart, acting no hypocrisy
and no deception before God, but with real intent, repenting of
your sins, witnessing unto the Father that ye are willing to take
upon you the name of Christ, by baptism--yea, by following your
Lord and your Savior down into the water, according to his word,
behold, then shall ye receive the Holy Ghost; yea, then cometh
the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost; and then can ye speak
with the tongue of angels, and shout praises unto the Holy One of
Israel.

 14 But, behold, my beloved brethren, thus came the voice of the
Son unto me, saying: After ye have repented of your sins, and
witnessed unto the Father that ye are willing to keep my
commandments, by the baptism of water, and have received the
baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost, and can speak with a new
tongue, yea, even with the tongue of angels, and after this
should deny me, it would have been better for you that ye had not
known me.

 15 And I heard a voice from the Father, saying: Yea, the words
of my Beloved are true and faithful.  He that endureth to the
end, the same shall be saved.

 16 And now, my beloved brethren, I know by this that unless a
man shall endure to the end, in following the example of the Son
of the living God, he cannot be saved.

 17 Wherefore, do the things which I have told you I have seen
that your Lord and your Redeemer should do; for, for this cause
have they been shown unto me, that ye might know the gate by
which ye should enter.  For the gate by which ye should enter is
repentance and baptism by water; and then cometh a remission of
your sins by fire and by the Holy Ghost.

 18 And then are ye in this strait and narrow path which leads to
eternal life; yea, ye have entered in by the gate; ye have done
according to the commandments of the Father and the Son; and ye
have received the Holy Ghost, which witnesses of the Father and
the Son, unto the fulfilling of the promise which he hath made,
that if ye entered in by the way ye should receive.

 19 And now, my beloved brethren, after ye have gotten into this
strait and narrow path, I would ask if all is done?  Behold, I
say unto you, Nay; for ye have not come thus far save it were by
the word of Christ with unshaken faith in him, relying wholly
upon the merits of him who is mighty to save.

 20 Wherefore, ye must press forward with a steadfastness in
Christ, having a perfect brightness of hope, and a love of God
and of all men.  Wherefore, if ye shall press forward, feasting
upon the word of Christ, and endure to the end, behold, thus
saith the Father: Ye shall have eternal life.

 21 And now, behold, my beloved brethren, this is the way; and
there is none other way nor name given under heaven whereby man
can be saved in the kingdom of God.  And now, behold, this is the
doctrine of Christ, and the only and true doctrine of the Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, which is one God, without
end.  Amen.

Chapter 32

 1 And now, behold, my beloved brethren, I suppose that ye ponder
somewhat in your hearts concerning that which ye should do after
ye have entered in by the way.  But, behold, why do ye ponder
these things in your hearts?

 2 Do ye not remember that I said unto you that after ye had
received the Holy Ghost ye could speak with the tongue of angels?

And now, how could ye speak with the tongue of angels save it
were by the Holy Ghost?

 3 Angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore, they
speak the words of Christ.  Wherefore, I said unto you, feast
upon the words of Christ; for behold, the words of Christ will
tell you all things what ye should do.

 4 Wherefore, now after I have spoken these words, if ye cannot
understand them it will be because ye ask not, neither do ye
knock; wherefore, ye are not brought into the light, but must
perish in the dark.

 5 For behold, again I say unto you that if ye will enter in by
the way, and receive the Holy Ghost, it will show unto you all
things what ye should do.

 6 Behold, this is the doctrine of Christ, and there will be no
more doctrine given until after he shall manifest himself unto
you in the flesh.  And when he shall manifest himself unto you in
the flesh, the things which he shall say unto you shall ye
observe to do.

 7 And now I, Nephi, cannot say more; the Spirit stoppeth mine
utterance, and I am left to mourn because of the unbelief, and
the wickedness, and the ignorance, and the stiffneckedness of
men; for they will not search knowledge, nor understand great
knowledge, when it is given unto them in plainness, even as plain
as word can be.

 8 And now, my beloved brethren, I perceive that ye ponder still
in your hearts; and it grieveth me that I must speak concerning
this thing.  For if ye would hearken unto the Spirit which
teacheth a man to pray ye would know that ye must pray; for the
evil spirit teacheth not a man to pray, but teacheth him that he
must not pray.

 9 But behold, I say unto you that ye must pray always, and not
faint; that ye must not perform any thing unto the Lord save in
the first place ye shall pray unto the Father in the name of
Christ, that he will consecrate thy performance unto thee, that
thy performance may be for the welfare of thy soul.

Chapter 33

 1 And now I, Nephi, cannot write all the things which were
taught among my people; neither am I mighty in writing, like unto
speaking; for when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost
the power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the hearts of the
children of men.

 2 But behold, there are many that harden their hearts against
the Holy Spirit, that it hath no place in them; wherefore, they
cast many things away which are written and esteem them as things
of naught.

 3 But I, Nephi, have written what I have written, and I esteem
it as of great worth, and especially unto my people.  For I pray
continually for them by day, and mine eyes water my pillow by
night, because of them; and I cry unto my God in faith, and I
know that he will hear my cry.

 4 And I know that the Lord God will consecrate my prayers for
the gain of my people.  And the words which I have written in
weakness will be made strong unto them; for it persuadeth them to
do good; it maketh known unto them of their fathers; and it
speaketh of Jesus, and persuadeth them to believe in him, and to
endure to the end, which is life eternal.

 5 And it speaketh harshly against sin, according to the
plainness of the truth; wherefore, no man will be angry at the
words which I have written save he shall be of the spirit of the
devil.

 6 I glory in plainness; I glory in truth; I glory in my Jesus,
for he hath redeemed my soul from hell.

 7 I have charity for my people, and great faith in Christ that I
shall meet many souls spotless at his judgment-seat.

 8 I have charity for the Jew--I say Jew, because I mean them
from whence I came.

 9 I also have charity for the Gentiles.  But behold, for none of
these can I hope except they shall be reconciled unto Christ, and
enter into the narrow gate, and walk in the strait path which
leads to life, and continue in the path until the end of the day
of probation.

 10 And now, my beloved brethren, and also Jew, and all ye ends
of the earth, hearken unto these words and believe in Christ; and
if ye believe not in these words believe in Christ.  And if ye
shall believe in Christ ye will believe in these words, for they
are the words of Christ, and he hath given them unto me; and they
teach all men that they should do good.

 11 And if they are not the words of Christ, judge ye--for Christ
will show unto you, with power and great glory, that they are his
words, at the last day; and you and I shall stand face to face
before his bar; and ye shall know that I have been commanded of
him to write these things, notwithstanding my weakness.

 12 And I pray the Father in the name of Christ that many of us,
if not all, may be saved in his kingdom at that great and last
day.

 13 And now, my beloved brethren, all those who are of the house
of Israel, and all ye ends of the earth, I speak unto you as the
voice of one crying from the dust: Farewell until that great day
shall come.

 14 And you that will not partake of the goodness of God, and
respect the words of the Jews, and also my words, and the words
which shall proceed forth out of the mouth of the Lamb of God,
behold, I bid you an everlasting farewell, for these words shall
condemn you at the last day.

 15 For what I seal on earth, shall be brought against you at the
judgment bar; for thus hath the Lord commanded me, and I must
obey.  Amen.

